The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d

September the Seventeenth, Nineteen Hundred and Ninety-Seven

Mayor
Michael R. White
President of Council
Jay Westbrook
Clerk of Council
Artha Woods
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Charles L. Patton, Jr.
Robert J. White
Odelia V. Robinson
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
John C. Skrha
Helen K. Smith
Merle R. Gordon
Larry Moran
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Joseph J. Zone
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

RECYCLE...........................Save the Future
Printed on Recycled Paper.....Council Cares

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Public Hearings
Index

3
9
10
14
14
14
14
14
15
25
25
25

FIRST-CLASS MAIL
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

First Class Mail

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Jay Westbrook
Name
Residence
Charles L. Patton, Jr......................................2986 Ripley Road
44120
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
44105
Odelia V. Robinson................................3448 East 123rd Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
44115
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
44120
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
44108
Craig E. Willis .........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
44105
John C. Skrha .......................................5100 Broadway Avenue
44127
Helen K. Smith...........................................3016 Carroll Avenue
44113
Merle R. Gordon.........................................1813 Tampa Avenue
44109
Larry Moran .............................................3584 West 46th Street
44102
Timothy J. Melena ........................6109 West Clinton Avenue
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
44102
Joseph J. Zone........................................3323 West 130th Street
44111
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
44111
Clerk of Council–Artha Woods, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk–Sandra Franklin.
MAYOR–Michael R. White
LaVonne Sheffield-McClain, Chief of Staff,Executive Assistant for Policy
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Judith Zimomra, Executive Assistant for Service
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Economic Development
Richard Werner, Executive Assistant for Governmental Affairs.
Susan E. Axelrod, Executive Assistant for Communications and Support
Services
Linda Willis, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Sharon Sobol Jordan, Director of Law, Room 106;
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian; Criminal Branch–Justice Center, 8th
Flr., Court Towers, 1200 Ontario
Carolyn Watts-Allen, Chief Asst. Prosecutor
Lessie M. Milton, Chief Counsel
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Martin L. Carmody, Director, Room 104; Carlean
Alford, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – A. Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Mary Christine Jackman,Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Robert J. Schneider, Commissioner,
Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – William A. Moon, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – James D. Smith, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – Keith D. Schuster, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Hamid Manteghi, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – M. Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – Jim Majer, Acting Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – William F. Cunningham, Jr., Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - Stephen Sheehan, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport - Michael C. Barth, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Henry Guzmán, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Larry Hines, Commissioner,
5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
En ginee ri ng and Construct ion – J. Chri stopher Nie lso n, Acting
Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Acting Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Kenneth Nobilio, Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH –Robert O. Staib, Director, Mural Building
1925 St. Clair Avenue.
DIVISIONS – Health – Joyce Atwell-Joyce, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Joseph W. Jasper, Jr., Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925
St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cooley Farms, 4041 North–
field Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – William M. Denihan, Director. Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police\ Rocco Pollutro, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300
||||Ontario Street
Fire – Robert M. Derrit, Acting Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Traffic Engineering & Parking – David Ritz, Commissioner, 2001 Payne Ave.
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Bruce Shade, Commissioner, 2001 Payne
Ave.
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Oliver B. Spellman,
|||Jr., Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVIS IONS – Conve ntio n Ce nte r & S tadi um – James Glending,
|||Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Vernon Robinson, Commissioner,
||||E. 49th & Harvard
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Parking Facilities – Alfred T. Miller, Jr., Acting Commissioner, Public
||||Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties –Richard L. Silva, Acting Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Acting Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – M. Fallon, Commissioner, Burke
Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT –Terri Hamilton, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Acting Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Terri Hamilton, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Lisa Thomas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Joseph Nolan,
Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren,

Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Rm. 122, Delores A. Lynch, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Gary L. Holland, Director;

Mayor Michael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilmen Michael Polensek and Edward Rybka, City
Council Representatives; Muqit Abdul Sabur, Louise Boddie, Charles E.
McBee, Larry C. Liou, John Gallo, Emmett Saunders, Mary Jan Buckshot,
Sr. Joaquina Carrion, Kathryn M. Hall, Hasan Muheisen, Barbara S.
Rosenthal, Henry Simon.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Freddie J. Fenderson,
President; Timothy J. Cosgrove, Vice President; Donna K. Nelson,

Secretary; Margaret Hopkins, Member, Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy
Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; __________________, Director; President of Council

Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;

Members; Chris Carmody, Anna Chatman, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Hunter Morrison, Acting Sec’y.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room

516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, James Williams, Alternate Members
– D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director, Sharon Sobol

Jordan; Pres. Finance Director, ____________________, Director Sec’y.
Council President Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Henry Guzmán, Service Director;

Law Director, Sharon Sobol Jordan, Councilman Roosevelt Coats.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director, Sharon

Sobol Jordan, Utilities Director, Michael Konicek; President of Council, Jay
Westbrook.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Rev. Albert T. Rowan, Chairman; ____________, Vice Chairman, David
Bowen, Anthony J. Coyne, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney,
Councilman Edward W. Rybka.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Sharon Sobol Jordan, __________________,
Councilman Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Raymond Ossovicki,
Chairman; _____________, Anton J. Eichmuller, Samuel Montfort
J. Gilbert Steele, Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chrm.;
Earl S. Bumgarner, _______________, Jozef Valencik, Martin Gallagher,
Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary.
C LEVE LAND LANDMA RKS COMMISSION – Ro om 5 19 ,__ ___ _ __ ,
Director; R. Schanfarber, Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; Robert
Keiser, Secretary; Judge Lillian Burke, James Gibans, Hunter Morrison,
Kenneth Nobilio, Theodore Sande, Randall Shorr, Shirley Thompson,
Councilmen Craig E. Willis and Helen K. Smith.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Salvatore R. Calandra
13A
Judge Colleen C. Cooney
14A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
12B
Judge Kathleen A. Keough
12C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
14C
Judge Gerald F. Sweeney
13D
Judge Robert S. Triozzi
12A
Earle B. Turner–Clerk of Courts, John J. O’Toole–Court Administrator, Robert
C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer, Michelle
L. Paris–Chief Referee

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1997

Vol. 84

No. 4371

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.00 per month
Address all communications to

1:30 P.M.— Public Utilities Committee: Patton, Chairman; Polensek,
Vice Chairman; Coats, Dolan, Lewis,
Moran, Patmon, Skrha, Willis.
1:30 P.M.— City Planning Committee: Rybka, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Jackson, Gordon, Skrha,
White, Zone.

ARTHA WOODS

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1994-1997
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman;
Patton, Robinson, Skrha, Sweeney,
White.
9:30 A.M.—Public Health Committee: Robinson, Chairman; Zone, Vice
Chairman; Britt, Gordon, Jackson,
Melena, Skrha.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee: Coats, Chairman; White, Vice
Chairman; Britt, Johnson, Melena,
Moran, Smith, Sweeney, Westbrook.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Patmon, Chairman; Robinson, Vice
Chairman;Gordon,
Lewis,
Melena,
Moran, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M.— Finance Committee:
Westbrook,
Chairman;
Polensek,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats, Johnson,
Lewis,
Patmon,
Robinson,
Rybka, Smith, Zone.
TUESDAY
10:00 A.M.—Community and Economic
Development
Committee:
Jackson,
Chairman;
Lewis,
Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Coats,
Gordon,
Melena, Patton, Smith, Willis.
1:30 P.M.— Legislation Committee:
Willis,
Chairman;
Melena,
Vice
Chairman; Dolan, Johnson, Rybka,
Sweeney, White.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Smith, Chairman;
Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Dolan,
Patmon, Skrha, White, Willis.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Polensek, Chairman; Willis,
Vice Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Moran, Patmon, Patton, Zone.

______________

Cleveland,
Ohio
September
15,
1997.
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, the President, Jay
Westbrook in the Chair.
Councilmen present: Britt, Coats,
Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Lewis, Melena, Moran, Patmon, Patton, Polensek, Robinson, Rybka,
Skhra, Smith, Sweeney, Westbrook,
White, Willis, Zone.
Also present were Directors SobolJordan,
Carmody,
Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Denihan,
Spellman, Hamilton, Nolan, Warren,
Lynch, Holland, Willis, Nelson and
Morrison.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the Council Meeting was opened
with a prayer offered by Rev. Dr.
Joseph W. Skrha of the Catholic Diocese of Greater Cleveland and St.
Michael’s Hospital. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Councilman Britt
the reading of the minutes of the
last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 1727-97.
From the Division of Purchases &
Supplies re: Emergency Requisition
(RE-97649). Received.
File No. 1728-97.
From the Division of Purchases &
Supplies re: Excess Property - Reference No. 010-97. Received.
File No. 1729-97.
From the Board of Elections re:
Certificate of result of election on
Issue 1, Proposed Charter Amendment. Received.
File No. 1730-97.
From the Division of Purchases &
Supplies re: Excess Property - Reference No. 011-97. Received.
File No. 1731-97.
From the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District re: 1996 Annual
Report, Protecting your clean water
investment. Received.

1621

File No. 1732-97.
From the Director of Public Safety re: Summary of OC Spray training and usage by the Division of
Police for the period of April 1, 1997
to June 30, 1997. Received.
File No. 1733-97.
From
the
Cleveland
Minority
Cable Channel re: CMCC Financials
1996. Received.
File No. 1734-97.
From the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties re: Notice
to Council of Subsidiary Agreement.
Received.
File No. 1735-97.
From the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District re: Manhole Rehabilitation Contract MR-8. Received.
File No. 1736-97.
From the Civil Service Commission re: Request to establish the
classification of Assistant Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses.
Received.
File No. 1765-97.
Two proposed Scope of Services
for Monitor of the Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Expansion Project. Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTANCE
File No. 1766-97.
From the Director of the Department
of Parks, Recreation and Property re:
Contract No. 49803 for Moulton/Scoutway Park Phase II. Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1749-97—Mildred L. Lewis.
Res. No. 1750-97—Aissa Danyelle
Archie.
Res. No. 1751-97—Robert W. H.
Dickerson.
CONGRATULATORY RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1752-97—Harmonia-Chopin
Singing Society.
Res. No. 1753-97—St. Stanislaus
Dad’s Club 50th Anniversary.
Res. No. 1754-97—Shed Scott.
Res. No. 1755-97—Richard P. &
Elizabeth Stack.
Res. No. 1756-97—Detective Rich
Calabrese.
Res. No. 1757-97—Edward & Olga
Baran.
Res. No. 1758-97—Anna Chatman.
Res. No. 1759-97—Our Lady of
Mercy Church.
Res. No. 1761-97—Robert R. & Edna
Tarter, Sr.

The City Record

4
RESOLUTIONS OF RECOGNITION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1760-97—National Hispanic Hertiage.
Res. No. 1762-97—Sisters of St.
Joseph of Cleveland 125th Anniversary.
Res. No. 1763-97—Sergeant Calvin
Williams.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1737-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of Toro mower
parts, for the various divisions of
City government, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the
requirements for the period of two
(2) years for the necessary items of
Toro mower parts in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the various divisions of City government. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than two (2) years may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant to a requisition against
such contract duly certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 22986)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 1738-97.
By Councilmen Johnson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
make alterations and modifications in
Contract No. 51055 for renovations to
City Hall with Envirocom Construction Inc. for the Department of Parks,
Recreation and and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
make the following alterations and
modifications in Contract No. 51055
with Envirocom Construction Inc.
for renovations to City Hall, for the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties:
Subsidiary Additions
General Conditions
Demolition
Barricades
Concrete
Waterproofing
Quarry Tile
Plaster Patching
Painting
Plumbing
Subtotal

$ 22,410.00
24,925.00
13,500.00
32,400.00
14,580.00
15,120.00
21,600.00
12,150.00
+104,490.00
$ 261,175.00

Overhead & Profit @ 10%
Subtotal

$ 26,118.00
$ 287,293.00

Bond
$ 4,307.00
TOTAL SUBSIDIARY
ADDITIONS
$ 291,600.00
Original Contract Amount $ 611,200.00
Total Subsidiary Additions 291,600.00
REVISED CONTRACT
AMOUNT
$ 902,800.00
which alteration has been recommended in writing by the said Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties, countersigned by the Mayor,
and consented to by the surety on
said contract, which price to be paid
therefor has been agreed upon in
writing and signed by the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
and the Contractor. This alteration
will
cause
an
increase
in
the
amount of the original contract in
the sum of $291,600.00, to be paid
from Fund No. 20 SF 340.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1739-97.
By Councilmen Robinson, Coats,
Rybka, Willis and Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 561.02 and 561.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
1328-82, passed September 20, 1982; to
supplement said codified ordinances
by enacting new Sections 210.01,
210.02 and 210.03 thereof; and to retitle Chapter 561 of said codified ordinances to “Permits for Clean Hard
Fill” all relating to landfills.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 561.02 and
561.03 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 1328-82, passed Sep-

1622

September 17, 1997
tember 20, 1982, are hereby amended to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 561.02

Definitions

As used in this chapter, unless a
different meaning is clearly indicated by the context:
(a) “Director” means the Director
of Public Service.
(b) “Clean hard fill” means reinforced or nonreinforced concrete,
asphalt concrete, brick, block, tile,
and/or stone which can be reutilized
as construction material. Clean hard
fill does not include materials contaminated with hazardous wastes,
solid wastes, (including materials
treated with lead-based paint), or
infectious wastes.
(c) “Earth material” means any
rock, fill, natural soil and/or any
combination thereof.
(d) “Fill” means an artificial or
mechanical act by which earth is
placed,
pushed,
dumped,
pulled,
transported or moved to a new location above the natural surface and
includes the conditions resulting
therefrom. “Fill” also means the difference in elevation between a point
on the original ground and a designated point of higher elevation on
the final grade. “Fill” also means
the material used to make a fill.
“Fill” refers to temporary or permanent operations.
(e) “Person” means an individual,
partnership, partner, firm, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate or any other legal
entity, or their legal representatives,
agents or assigns.
(f) “Site” means any lot or parcel
of land or contiguous combination
thereof, upon which filling is, has
been or will be performed.
Section 561.03 Permit Application
and Approval Required
(a) No person, being the owner of
any property or in possession or control of any property, shall cause,
permit or allow any filling to be
done on such property until such
person, or his or her agent, files an
application, in the office of the
Director of Public Service, for a permit to do so, and until such a permit has been issued to such person
by the Director. A separate application and permit are required for
each site.
(b) Such permit applications shall
be made on forms prepared by the
Director and shall contain such
information as he or she deems necessary to determine whether or not
the permit should be issued. The
information required in such application, including plans and specifications in triplicate, shall include:
(1)
The
owner’s
name
and
address;
(2) A plot plan, drawn to scale,
showing the location of the proposed
work, with the permanent parcel
number and street address;
(3) A contour map of the affected
area, showing the existing contours
in dashed lines and the proposed
contours in solid lines at one-foot
intervals;
(4) A diagram of any temporary
drive provision; and
(5) The name and address of the
person supplying the fill.
(c) The Director may, by rule or
regulation,
prescribed
additional
requirements for permit applications.
(d) A person having a valid construction and demolition debris landfill permit issued by the Director of
Public Health is exempt from the
requirements of this section.

September 17, 1997
(e) The Director of Public Service
shall issue a permit to fill only to
persons using clean hard fill. All
applicants shall be given a copy of
Ohio Administrative Code 3745-40005, relating to the use of clean hard
fill. Any person intending to use any
material other than clean hard fill
shall be directed to contact the
Director of Public Health who shall
inform the applicant of the requirements for construction and demolition debris landfills.
(f) The Director of Public Service
shall notify the Director of Public
Health of all applications for fill
permits.
Section 2. That existing Sections
561.02 and 561.03 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 1328-82,
passed September 20, 1982, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Sections 210.01, 210.02 and 210.03
thereof, to read, respectively, as follows:
CHAPTER 210
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION
DEBRIS LANDFILLS
Section 210.01 State Program
(a) All provisions of Chapter 3714
of the Ohio Revised Code, and all
provisions of Chapters 3745-37 and
3745-400 of the Ohio Administrative
Code, relating to construction and
demolition debris landfills shall be
enforced by the Director of Public
Health.
(b) If at any time the Cleveland
Department of Public Health ceases
to be an approved health district,
then the enforcement of the laws
governing construction and demolition debris landfills shall revert to
the Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, pursuant
to state law.
Section 210.02 Coordination
(a) The Department of Public
Health shall notify the Department
of Public Service and the member of
the City Council in whose ward a
construction and demolition debris
land fill may be located of the
receipt of any permit application
and of the name of the applicant
and the address of the landfill. The
entire permit application shall also
be made available to them on
request.
(b) No permit application, permit
modification, or permit exemption
shall be granted by the Director of
Public Health without review of the
proposed action by the Director of
Public Service.
Section 210.03 Prohibition on Dual
Permitting
(a) A person having a valid construction and demolition debris landfill permit issued by the Director of
Public Health shall not be required
to also obtain a permit to fill from
the Director of Public Service.
(b) A person intending to dispose
of only clean hard fill as described
by Ohio Administrative Code 3745400-01 and 3745-400-05 shall be directed to obtain a permit to fill from the
Director of Public Service.
Section 4. That the existing title
to Chapter 561 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, is
hereby changed to read “Permits for
Clean Hard Fill”

The City Record

5

Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Public Service, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Health, Public
Service, City Planning, Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1740-97.
By Councilmen Rybka, Willis and
Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 357.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 925-95,
passed September 15, 1995, relating
to yard enroachments.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 357.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 925-95, passed September 15, 1995, is hereby amended
to read as follows:
Section
357.13
ments Permitted

Yard

Encroach-

Required yard spaces shall be
maintained free and unobstructed
except for trees and shrubbery, and,
in interior side or rear yards, cloths,
poles, arbors, garden trellis and similar accessories, and except that the
following encroachments shall be
permitted.
(a) Underground
Garage
or
Accessory Space in Multi-Family
Districts. Within the required yard
spaces back of the setback building
line in a Multi-Family District an
underground garage or other accessory space maybe constructed provided the height of such structure,
including parapets, piers or railings,
shall not exceed five feet above the
grade level, and provided such
structure does not prevent free
access to the rear yard.
(b) Front Yard and Side Street
Yard
Encroachments.
Except
as
restricted or limited by other provisions of this Zoning Code, the following front yard and side street
yard encroachments shall be permitted in any use district:
(1) Front yard and side street
yard encroachments permitted under
Chapter 3109, and Chapter 3113,
except that in a Dwelling House
District no entrance canopy shall be
erected, and no marquees or fixed or
retractable awning shall project
more than six feet beyond the building line or within ten feet of the
street line.
(2) Steps and landings, and their
appurtenant
railings,
balustrades
and parapets, leading up or down to
floor levels directly above or below
the grade level.
(3) Fences, walls or hedges not
more than fifty-four inches above
grade level; provided that on a corner lot no wall, fence or other structure shall be erected and no hedge,
shrub, tree or other vegetation shall
be maintained which exceeds thirty
inches above the sidewalk grades of

1623

the intersecting streets in the area
bounded by the street lines or such
corner lots and a line thirty feet
from a point where such street lines
intersect, and providing further, that
the Board of Zoning Appeals may,
after public hearing, permit the construction of a wall or fence not
higher than ten feet above the grade
level to enclose a public or private
playground or any other area or
structure which is the property of
any agency or branch of government, where adjacent premises will
not be substantially injured thereby.
Notwithstanding Sections 329.04 and
357.14 of this Zoning Code, the
Board of Zoning Appeals may, after
public notice and hearing, permit
the erection of structures between
the street line and setback building
line if such structures are needed to
provide protection from crime for
the occupants of a building or for
property at a building. The Board
shall determine if the proposed
structures are needed by taking into
account security conditions in the
neighborhood, including the feasibility of alternative means of security, and by considering any detrimental effect the proposed structures will have on the property
itself or on the neighborhood and
any positive or mitigating effect created by the installation of landscaping or other design features
which are not required by this code.
The Board may approve a proposed
design in part if the Board finds
that only that part meets the
requirements of this section. However, when in the discretion of the
Zoning Administrator, the proposed
corner fence will not block lines of
sight and will be constructed of
such material such as to not block
lines of sight such as a metal chain
link, he or she shall issue a permit
for such corner fence provided that
the fence shall not exceed fifty-four
inches.
(4) Open porticos or porches projecting not more than six feet,
enclosed porches or vestibules projecting not more than four feet and
balconies projecting not more than
three feet, provided they do not
extend within ten feet of the street
line and do not aggregate a vertical
area in any story more than twenty
percent of the area of the facade in
that story.
(5) Structures permitted by division (a) of Section 3113.10, division
(a) of Section 3113.13 and Section
3113.16 or where not so permitted,
gasoline pump islands, sign poles or
similar temporary and easily removable structures, provided that conditional and temporary permits therefor are granted, subject to appropriate conditions and safeguards by
the Board after public notice and
public hearing, and provided, further, that the erection, maintenance
and use thereof do not conflict with
the intent and purposes of this Zoning Code.
(c) Rear Yard and Interior Side
Yard
Encroachments.
Except
as
restricted or limited by other provisions of this Zoning Code, the following rear yard and interior side
yard encroachments shall be permitted in any use district:
(1) In rear yards only, accessory
buildings and uses in connection
with
Residence
Occupancy
as
defined and limited in Section 337.23,
and similar accessory buildings and
uses in connection with buildings of
Institutional H Occupancy Classification. Accessory buildings or uses
attached or forming part of a main

6
building
shall
be
permitted
to
encroach upon such rear yards to
the extent permitted for detached
accessory buildings or uses.
(2) Projections for architectural
embellishment
listed
in
Section
3109.08, provided that no main cornice or eaves shall project into a
required yard more than two feet,
measured horizontally, and no bar
or oriel shall be constructed in a
required interior side yard and none
shall project into a required rear
yard more than eighteen inches, and
no other projection shall exceed the
maximum
permissible
projection
specified in Section 3109.08 or be so
located as to materially obstruct
natural light or ventilation.
(3) Fixed awnings, as permitted
by Section 3109.10.
(4) Retractable awnings, as permitted by Section 3109.11.
(5) Steps,
landings
and
their
appurtenant
railings,
balustrades
and parapets, leading up or down to
floor levels directly above or below
the grade level, not extending nearer than one foot to a rear or side
lot line.
(6) Chimneys projecting not more
than thirty-two inches, downspouts
projecting not more than twelve
inches, and ventilating ducts or
pipes projecting not more than thirty-two inches and having a maximum aggregate cross-sectional area
in any yard and at any level or 1,024
square inches.
(7) Fences, walls, hedges or other
barriers, as regulated in division
(a)(6) of Section 337.23.
(d) Temporary Structures. Temporary offices, bridges, barricades and
similar structures required for and
incident to building construction.
Section 2. That existing Section
357.13 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 925-95, passed
September
15,
1995,
is
hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees
on
City
Planning,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1741-97.
By Councilmen Patmon and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the collective bargaining agreement with the City, County and
Waste Paper Drivers Union, Local
244 - Seasonal Employees.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, in accordance
with division (B) of Section 4117.10
of the Revised Code, this Council
hereby approves the collective bargaining agreement with the City,
County and Waste Paper Drivers
Union, Local 244 - Seasonal Employees set forth in File No. 1741-97-A,
for the period from April 1, 1995,
through March 31, 1998, which provides, among other things, for a percentage increase in the salaries and

The City Record
wages for members of the bargaining unit in accordance with the following schedule:
Percentage
Increase

Effective Date
of Increase

Two percent (2%)
Three percent (3%)
Three percent (3%)

April 1, 1995
April 1, 1996
April 1, 1997

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative
Action
and
Training,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1742-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
employ one or more professional
financial and information service
consultants to audit and review the
City’s fund disbursement and transfer procedures for the Department of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed to employ by contract one
or more professional financial and
information service consultants or
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to audit, review and
issue a report of findings and recommendations concerning the City’s
fund disbursement and transfer procedures, including electronic and
paper transactions.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Finance
from a list of qualified consultants
available for such employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Finance for the purpose of compiling such a list. The compensation to
be paid for such services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract herein authorized shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
approved and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall be
paid from funds appropriated for the
use of the Department of Finance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

1624

September 17, 1997
Ord. No. 1743-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of towel and
linen service, for the various divisions of City government, for a period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the
requirements for the period of two
(2) years for the necessary items of
towel and linen service in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the various divisions of
City government. Bids shall be taken
in such manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as a
single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of
said items as the Board of Control
shall determine. Alternate bids for a
period less than two (2) years may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. The cost of said contract
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant to a requisition against
such contract duly certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 22985)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect; and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1744-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of computer
hardware, software and supplies,
office furniture, equipment, data
processing services, employee training, and building equipment and
maintenance for various divisions of
City government; and authorizing
said director to employ one or more
computer
consultants
and
data
processors to provide professional
services, in conjunction with the
Year 2000 project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed to make a written requirement contract in accordance with
the Charter and the Codified Ordi-

September 17, 1997
nances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for the period of
one year for the necessary items of
computer hardware, software and
supplies, office furniture, equipment,
data processing services, employee
training, and building equipment,
including parts and maintenance, in
conjunction with the Year 2000 computer compliance project, in the estimated sum of $6,000,000.00, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the various divisions of
City government, City Council and
Cleveland Municipal Court. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
23236)
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed to employ by contract one
or more computer and/or data processing consultants or one or more
firms of computer and/or data processing consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to assist the City of
Cleveland, City Council and Cleveland Municipal Court in implementing the Year 2000 computer compliance project.
The selection of said consultant
or consultants for such services
shall be made by the Board of Control upon the nomination of the
Director of Finance from a list of
qualified consultants available for
such employment as may be determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Finance
for the purpose of compiling such
a list. The compensation to be paid
for such services shall be fixed by
the Board of Control. The contract
herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved
by
the
Director
of
Finance,
and
certified
by
the
Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001,
54 SF 001, 57 SF 001, 58 SF 001, 81
SF 001, 60 SF 001, 10 SF 165, 10 SF
006 and 50 SF 001, Request No.
23236.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

The City Record
FIRST READING
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1745-97.
By Councilman Rybka.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of lands bounded by Waterman Avenue, S.E, E. 63 Street,
Roland Avenue, S.E, and E. 61 Street.
(Map Change No. 1960, Sheet No. 5)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows,
Beginning at the intersection of
the
center
line
of
Waterman
Avenue, S.E. and the center line of
East 63 Street; thence southerly
along said center line of East 63
Street to the center line of Roland
Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along
said center line of Roland Avenue,
S.E. to the center line of East 61
Street; thence northerly along said
center line of East 61 Street to said
center line of Waterman Avenue,
S.E.; thence easterly along said center line of Waterman Avenue, S.E.
to the place of beginning,
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached, be and the same is
hereby changed to a General Industry Use District.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 1960, Sheet No. 5 and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1764-97.
By Councilman Johnson.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
bounded by East 89 Street, Cumberland Avenue, S.E., East 93 Street,
and Buckeye Road. (Map Change
No. 1953, Sheet No. 5)
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area, and
Height Districts of lands bounded
and described as follows,
Beginning at the intersection of
the
center
line
of
Cumberland
Avenue, S.E. and the center line of
East 93 Street, thence southerly
along said center line of East 93
Street to the center line of Steinway
Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along
said center line of Steinway Avenue,
S.E. to the center line of Buckeye
Road, S.E.; thence northwesterly
along said center line of Buckeye
Road, S.E. to the center line of East
89 Street, thence northerly along
said center line of East 89 Street to
said center line of Cumberland
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
said center line of Cumberland
Avenue, S.E. to the place of beginning,
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached, be and the same
are hereby changed to a Semi Industry Use District, a ‘C’ Area District
and a ‘1’ Height District.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 1953, Sheet No. 5 and

1625

7
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 1746-97.
By Councilmen Skrha, Coats, Jackson, Rybka and Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution to amend
Section 2 of Resolution No. 483-95,
passed June 5, 1995, relating to the
formation of the Cleveland Theater
District as a Special Improvement
District within the City; declaring it
necessary to provide for additional
security for the Cleveland Theater
District, cleaning and maintenance
of the public rights-of-way and Star
Plaza within the Cleveland Theater
District, and collective marketing of
the Cleveland Theater District in
the City of Cleveland; approving the
comprehensive plan of services to be
provided by the Cleveland Theater
District Development Corporation;
and providing for the assessment of
the cost and expense of such work
upon benefited property in said district; and declaring an emergency.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Resolution No. 483-95, passed June 5, 1995,
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 2. Pursuant to Chapter
1710 of the Ohio Revised Code, this
Council hereby approves the Petition and the Articles of Incorporation of a special improvement district to be known as the Cleveland
Theater District, whose boundaries
shall be as follows:
CLEVELAND THEATRE DISTRICT
Beginning in the Easterly line of
East 18th Street at its intersection
with the Southerly line of Prospect
Avenue, S.E.;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of East 18th Street to its
intersection with the Northerly line
of Chester Avenue N.E.;
Thence
Westerly
along
the
Northerly line of Chester Avenue,
N.E., to its
intersection with the
Westerly line of East 12th Street;
Thence Southeasterly and Southerly along said line of East 12th
Street, to its intersection with the
Northerly line of Euclid Avenue;
Thence Southerly, in a direct line
across Euclid Avenue, to the Westerly line of East 12th Street;
Thence Southerly along said line
of East 12th Street to the Northerly
line of Barn Court, S.E.;
Thence Southwesterly along said
line of Barn Court, S.E. and its Southwesterly prolongation, to the Southwesterly line of East 9th Street;
Thence Southerly along said line
of East 9th Street to its intersection
with the Southerly line of Prospect
Avenue, S.E.;

8
Thence Easterly along said line of
Prospect Avenue, S.E., to the place
of beginning.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Resolution No. 483-95, passed June
5, 1995, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That it is hereby determined and declared necessary and
conducive to the public health, convenience and welfare of the City of
Cleveland and the inhabitants to
provide additional security for the
Cleveland Theater District, additional cleaning and maintenance of
the public rights-of-way and Star
Plaza within the Cleveland Theater
District and collective marketing of
the Cleveland Theater District for a
five year period commencing after
the passage of the ordinance to proceed in this matter.
Section 4. That it is hereby determined that the property contained
within the Cleveland Theater District will be benefited by the abovedescribed public improvements and
shall be assessed to pay for the cost
of the improvements, calculated as
the percentage of tax value of the
property taken as a percentage of
the district as a whole.
Section 5. Except as stated in Section 6 herein, the Comprehensive Plan
of Services to be provided by the
Cleveland Theater District Development Corporation (the “Plan”) on file
in File No. 1746-97-A, is hereby approved in accordance with Section
1710.06(B) of the Revised Code of Ohio
at an estimated cost of $1,652,521.00.
Section 6. That any portion of the
Plan that duplicates services to control blight and disease of shade
trees, as further described in Resolution No. 376-96, adopted May 13,
1996, as amended or any services
undertaken by the City in any
future
Tree
Assessment
District
relating to downtown is expressly
not approved and shall be void.
Section 7. That the entire cost of
such Plan in the Cleveland Theater
District be specially assessed by a
percentage of the tax value of all
lots and lands within the Cleveland
Theater District, which said lots and
lands are hereby determined to be
specifically benefited by said work
in the amount equal to the amount
specially assessed against each such
lot and land. The cost of said work
shall include the cost of printing,
serving and publishing notices, resolutions and ordinances, the amount
of damages resulting from the work
assessed in favor of any owner of
land affected by the work and the
interest thereon, the costs incurred
in connection with the preparation,
levy and collection of the special
assessments, the cost of purchasing,
appropriating and otherwise acquiring therefor any required real estate
or interests therein, expenses of
legal services, the cost of all labor
and materials, and all other necessary expenditures allowed by law.
Section 8. That the assessments to
be levied shall be paid when levied
in five annual installments. The first
annual
installment
of
$331,465.00
shall be payable in cash within thirty (30) days after passage of the
City’s ordinance of assessment. All
cash payments remaining unpaid at
the expiration of said thirty (30)
days shall be certified by the Clerk
of this Council to the County Auditor as provided by law to be placed
by him on the tax duplicate and collected as other taxes are collected.
Section 9. The second through
fifth annual installments in the
amounts of $330,264.00 each shall be
payable in cash within thirty (30)

The City Record
days after each of the next four
anniversaries of the date of passage
of the City’s ordinance of assessment. All cash payments remaining
unpaid at the expiration of each of
said thirty (30) days shall be certified by the Clerk of this Council to
the County Auditor as provided by
law to be placed by him on the tax
duplicate and collected as other
taxes are collected.
Section 10. That no notes or bonds
of the City of Cleveland shall be
issued in anticipation of the collection of the special assessments.
Section 11. That the Commissioner
of Assessments and Licenses be and
he hereby is authorized and directed
to prepare and file in the Office of
the Clerk of Council an estimated
assessment in accordance with the
provisions of this resolution showing
the amount of the assessment against
each lot or parcel of land to be
assessed. Such estimated assessment
shall be based upon the estimated
cost of the Plan which is now on file
in the Office of the Clerk of Council.
Section 12. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service,
Economic
Development,
City Planning Commission, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Service,
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1747-97.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit to 5901 Detroit Avenue, and
repealing Res. No. 2159-96 objecting
to said transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to 5901 Detroit
Avenue, by Res. No. 2159-96, adopted
December 2, 1996; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to 5901 Detroit
Avenue, and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate transfer of
ownership thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

1626

September 17, 1997
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1748-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6
Liquor
Permit
to
3528
Payne
Avenue, 1st Fl., and repealing Res.
No. 917-97 objecting to said transfer
of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X,
D3 and D6 to 3528 Payne Avenue 1st
Fl., by Res. No. 917-97, adopted May
5, 1997; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X,
D3 and D6 Liquor Permit to 3528
Payne Avenue, 1st Fl., be and the
same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer of ownership thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1293-97.
By
Councilmen
Robinson
and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
lease space located at 3030 Euclid
Avenue, from Hug-John Inc./Najm
Square, or its designee, for a threeyear term, for the operation of the
City of Cleveland’s Centerpoint Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Health,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1294-97.
By Councilmen Polensek and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the U.S. Department of Justice for
the 1997-98 Caribbean/Gang Task
Force Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1295-97.
By Councilmen Polensek and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Safety to enter into a require-

September 17, 1997
ment contract without competitive
bidding with Dictaphone Corporation for the purchase of Dictaphone
equipment
maintenance,
for
the
Department of Public Safety, for a
period of one year, with four oneyear options to renew.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance, when amended as follows:
1. In Section 2, at the end, insert
the following: “(RL 22756)”.
2. At the end of Section 1, add the
following new paragraph:
“If the Director of Public Safety
exercises an option(s) at any time
during this period, he shall notify
the Council of such action, and also
provide an explanation of the reasons for the renewal.”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 1298-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Public Works Commission
for the State Issue 2 for the Bridge
and Road G.O. Bonds - Loan Assistance program.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee
on Finance, when amended as follows:
1. In the title, lines 2 and 3, in Section 1, line 1 and also in line 6,
strike “Public Service” and insert in
lieu thereof “Finance”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 1458-97.
By Councilmen Patton and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of anthracite
filter media, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities,
Finance,
Law;
Recommended by Committee on Public
Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1459-97.
By Councilmen Robinson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the 1998 Federal Child Lead Poison
Prevention Program; and to enter
into contract necessary to implement the Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Health,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1460-97.
By Councilmen Robinson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 3 of Ordinance No.
440-97, passed March 24, 1997, relating to the 1997 Federal AIDS Prevention Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Health,
Finance.

The City Record
District One Public Works Integrating Committee for state funding
of various infrastructure capital
improvement
projects
and
state
funding to obtain credit enhancements and loan assistance in support of the City’s 1998 general obligation bond issue for road and bridge
improvements.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committees
on
Public
Service,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 21. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1640-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to enter into contract
with Michael Benza & Associates for
professional services necessary to
design the public improvement of
rehabilitating
East
55th
Street,
Phase II, from Woodland Avenue to
Superior Avenue, for the Division of
Engineering
and
Construction,
Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service; Relieved of Committees on
Public Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 21. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1643-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating East 89th Street Bridge over N
& S and RTA; authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into
contract for the making of such
improvement;
authorizing
said
director to enter into such other
agreements necessary to complete
this improvement; and authorizing
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies to acquire for right-of-way
purposes such real property as is
necessary
to
make
the
public
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service; Relieved of Committees on
Public Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 21. Nays 0.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 1472-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of microfiche
processing, for the various divisions
of City government, for a period not
to exceed two years.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council adjourned at 8:15 p.m.
to meet on Monday, September 22,
1997, at 7:00 p.m.

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1450-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to apply to the

1627

9
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1293-97.
By Councilmen Robinson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
lease space located at 3030 Euclid
Avenue, from Hug-John Inc./Najm
Square, or its designee, for a threeyear term, for the operation of the
City of Cleveland’s Centerpoint Program.
Ord. No. 1294-97.
By Councilmen Polensek and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the U.S. Department of Justice for
the 1997-98 Caribbean/Gang Task
Force Program.
Ord. No. 1295-97.
By Councilmen Polensek and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Safety to enter into a requirement contract without competitive
bidding with Dictaphone Corporation for the purchase of Dictaphone
equipment
maintenance,
for
the
Department of Public Safety, for a
period of one year, with four oneyear options to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within services are
non-competitive
and
cannot
be
secured from any source other than
Dictaphone Corporation. Therefore,
the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized and directed to make
a written requirement contract for
the period of one year with said contractor for maintenance for Dictaphone equipment, with four (4) oneyear options exercisable by the
Director of Public Safety, to renew
for additional one-year terms, and
cancellable upon thirty days’ written notice by said director, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Department of Public
Safety.
If the Director of Public Safety
exercises an option(s) at any time
during this period, he shall notify
the Council of such action, and also
provide an explanation of the reasons for the renewal.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
22756).
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

10
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 1298-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to apply
for and accept a grant from the Ohio
Public Works Commission for the
State Issue 2 for the Bridge and
Road G.O. Bonds - Loan Assistance
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
apply for and accept a grant in the
amount of $599,076, from the Ohio
Public Works Commission, to conduct the State Issue 2 for the Bridge
and Road G.O. Bonds - Loan Assistance Program, for the purposes set
forth in the application and according thereto; that the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for said
grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 1298-97-A, made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 1458-97.
By Councilmen Patton and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of anthracite
filter media, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period not to exceed two
years.
Ord. No. 1459-97.
By Councilmen Robinson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the 1998 Federal Child Lead Poison
Prevention Program; and to enter
into contract necessary to implement the Program.
Ord. No. 1460-97.
By Councilmen Robinson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 3 of Ordinance No.
440-97, passed March 24, 1997, relating to the 1997 Federal AIDS Prevention Program.

The City Record

September 17, 1997

BOARD OF CONTROL
September 10, 1997
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, September 10,
1997, at 11:30 a.m., with Mayor White
presiding.
Present: Mayor White, Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Absent: None.
Others: William Moon, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies,
Linda Willis, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 730-97.
By Director Cunningham.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on August 28, 1997 for
Installation of Runway and taxiway
lighting systems for the Division of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Department of Port Control,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 562-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 16, 1997, be and the same are
hereby rejected.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 731-97.
By Director Cunningham.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Anthony Allega
Cement Contractor, Inc. for the public improvement of Phase II - Site
Grading/Underground Utilities/Paving for the Consolidated Car Rental
Facility for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control, received
on September 5, 1997, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 56197, passed June 2, 1997, for a gross
price for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of Six Million Six
Hundred Eight Thousand Four Hundred Thirty and no/100 Dollars
($6,608,430.00), is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Port
Control is hereby authorized to
enter into contract for said improvement with said bidder.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by Anthony Allega
Cement Contractors, Inc. for Phase
II - Site Grading/Underground Utilities/Paving for the Consolidated Car
Rental Facility at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport for the
Department of Port Control is hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

SERVICE

Ballast Construction, Inc.
dba Ballast Fence
(FBE - $139,510.00/2%)
Fence work, temp.
Construction
Cuyahoga Supply & Tool, Inc.
Geotextile, underdrain, silt fence

1628

Granger Trucking, Inc.
(MBE - $953,000.00/14%)
Subbase material
Bradley Construction Company, Inc.
(MBE - $1,184,000.00/18%)
Excavation
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 732-97.
By Director Guzman.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1471-96 & 133096 passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland October 14, 1996 & July
17, 1996, and Resolution No. 138-97,
adopted by this Board of Control on
March 5, 1997 the City, through its
Director of Public Service, entered
into an agreement with Dodson-Stilson Inc. (“Consultant”), Contract No.
51835, to supplement the regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City in order to furnish
professional
engineering
services
necessary in making the public
improvement of rehabilitating and
reconstructing East 123rd Street/Arlington Avenue/East 125th Street;
and
Whereas, the City desires to modify the original scope of services to
include
additional
design
work
involving pavement reconstruction,
traffic counts and signal warrants
for two (2) additional signals, and
the display of new pavement widths
on the plans; and
Whereas, consultant has proposed
by it’s July 29, 1997 letter to provide
the additional engineering services
mentioned above for an amount not
to exceed $22,000.00; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that the
Director of Public Service hereby is
authorized to enter into a first modification to Contract No. 51835 with
Dodson-Stilson, Inc. for the additional engineering services required
for the public improvement of East
123rd Street/Arlington Avenue/East
125th Street in accordance with consultants July 29, 1997 proposal letter. The compensation for the additional services shall not exceed a
total of $22,000.00, thereby increasing the total fee under the agreement as modified from $260,070.00 to
$282,070.00. The modification authorized hereby shall be prepared by
the Director of Law and shall
include such additional provisions
as said Director deems necessary to
benefit and protect the public interest.
Be it further resolved that all
other term and provisions of Contract No. 51835 not expressly modified herein shall remain in full force
and effect.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 733-97.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Baker Vehicle Systems, Inc. for an
estimated
quantity
of
Cushman
Equipment Parts and Labor (all
items with a labor rate of $44.00 per

September 17, 1997
hour and 5% trade discount) for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service,
for the period of one (1) year beginning with the date of execution of a
contract received on August 22, 1997,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 546-97, passed June 2, 1997,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to approximately Sixty Thousand and no/100
Dollars, ($60,000.00), (2% 30 Days) is
hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director
of Public Service is hereby requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for such goods and/or services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 105793
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Eight
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($8,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 734-97.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of G-S Ford, Inc. for an estimated
quantity of Ford Tractor, Mower,
and Construction Equipment Parts
and Labor (all items with a labor
rate of $40.00 per hour and a trade
discount of 15%) for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract
received on August 22, 1997, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance
No. 539-97, passed June 2, 1997,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to approximately One Hundred Seventy Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars,
($170,000.00),
(Net)
is
hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Service is hereby requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for such goods and/or services,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 105794
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Fifteen
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($15,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

The City Record
Resolution No. 735-97.
By Director Spellman.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Granger Trucking, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of Ball Diamond
Clay (All Items) for the Division of
Park Maintenance and Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, for the period of two
(2) years beginning with the date of
execution of a contract received on
July 31, 1997, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 551-97, passed
May 5, 1997, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Twenty-Six Thousand,
Two
Hundred
Ninety-Seven
and
37/100ths Dollars, ($26,297.37), (Net),
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is hereby requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
such goods and/or services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 089658
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Ten
Thousand
and
00/100ths
Dollars
($10,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 736-97.
By Director Spellman.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Emerald Supply, Inc. for an estimated quantity of De-icing Agents
(All Items) for the Division of Park
Maintenance and Properties, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, for the period of two (2)
years beginning with the date of
execution of a contract received on
July 31, 1997, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 552-97, passed
May 5, 1997, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount to Thirty-Four Thousand,
Four
Hundred
Twenty-Four
and
28/100ths Dollars, ($34,424.28), (1% 10 Days), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Parks, Recreation
and
Properties
is
hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 089650
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Seven
Thousand
and
00/100ths
Dollars
($7,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.

1629

11
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 737-97.
By Director Spellman.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of U.S. Floor Service for the following: gymnasium floor refinishing at
the Estabrook and Lonnie Burton
Recreation Centers for the Division
of Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, received
on the seventh day of August, 1997,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 162-97, passed April 14,
1997, which on the basis of order
quantity would amount to $9,270.00,
is hereby approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby requested to enter into contract for such items.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractor of U.S. Floor Service for
the abovementioned purchase hereby is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR
WORK
Big Picture Sign Co., Inc.
11018 Peony
Cleveland, Ohio 44111
Line gyms, paint lines
all art work
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 738-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 124-26-019 and 124-26-020 located
at 7102 Colfax Road in Ward 5; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Gail M. Hodges, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcels; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 5 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcels are either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcels are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Commu-

12
nity Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Gail M.
Hodges for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 12426-019 and 124-26-020 located at 7102
Colfax Road, in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$1.00 each, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcels
for uses in accordance with said
Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 739-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 109-19-120 located at 10837 Olivet
Avenue in Ward 8; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, George A. Burton, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinance of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is hereby requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with George A. Burton
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 109-19-120 located
at 10837 Olivet Avenue, in accordance
with the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

The City Record
Resolution No. 740-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code, and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 109-13-015, 109-13016, 109-13-024, 109-13-082, 109-13-121,
109-14-132, 109-14-133, 109-14-135, 10920-038, 109-20-036, 109-20-044 and 10920-050, under said Land Reutilization
Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1488-97
passed August 13, 1997 authorized
the sale of said parcels subject to
the direction of Board of Control;
and
Whereas, Glenville Development
Corp. or designee has proposed to
the City to purchase and develop
said parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1488-97 passed August
13, 1997 by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Glenville Development Corp. or
designee for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 10913-015, 109-13-016, 109-13-024, 109-13082, 109-13-121, 109-14-132, 109-14-133,
109-14-135, 109-20-038, 109-20-036, 10920-044, and 109-20-050, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcel
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 741-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 109-18-106, 109-18108, 109-18-116, 109-19-004, 109-19-016,
109-19-010, 109-19-117, 109-19-127 and
109-18-130, under said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1164-97
passed August 13, 1997 authorized
the sale of said parcels subject to
the direction of Board of Control;
and
Whereas, Glenville Development
Corp. or designee has proposed to
the City to purchase and develop
said parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1164-97 passed August
13, 1997 by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Glenville Development Corp. or
designee for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 10918-106, 109-18-108, 109-18-116, 109-19004, 109-19-016, 109-19-010, 109-19-117,
109-19-127
and
109-18-130,
as

1630

September 17, 1997
described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcel
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 742-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5122 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 102-08-046 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1004-97
passed August 13, 1997 authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Mike Rooney Enterprises has proposed to the City to purchase and develop said parcel; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1004-97 passed August
13, 1997 by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Mike Rooney Enterprises for
the sale and development of Permanent
Parcel
No.
102-08-046,
as
described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$10.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution 743-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 109-16-030 and
109-16-031 under said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1163-97
passed Gary E. and Orlando E.
Davidson authorized the sale of said
parcels subject to the direction of
Board of Control; and
Whereas, have have proposed to
the City to purchase and develop
said parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1163-97 passed Gary

September 17, 1997
E. and Orlando E. Davidson by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
hereby authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland with have for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 109-16-030 and 10916-031, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$1.00 each, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 744-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 105-23-091 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1161-97
passed August 13, 1997 authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Milton and Beauty M.
Parks have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcel;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1161-97 passed August
13, 1997 by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Milton and Beauty M. Parks for
the sale and development of Permanent
Parcel
No.
105-23-091,
as
described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the fair
market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 745-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 144-02-113 under
said Land Reutilization
Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1073-97
passed June 9, 1997 authorized the
sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of

The City Record
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Buckeye Area Development Corp. or designee has proposed
to the City to purchase and develop
said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1073-97 passed June 9,
1997 by the Cleveland City Council,
the Mayor is hereby authorized to
execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
Buckeye Area Development Corp. or
designee for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 14402-113, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in ;accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 746-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 104-17-139 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1006-97
passed August 13, 1997 authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Robert E. and Beverly
M. Leach have proposed to the City
to purchase and develop said parcel;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1006-97 passed August
13, 1997 by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Robert E. and Beverly M.
Leach for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 104-17-139,
as described in said Ordinance in
accordance with the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of said
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the fair
market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 747-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reuti-

1631

13
lization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 130-04-020 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 287-97
passed August 13, 1997 authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas,
Covenant
Community
Church of Cleveland has proposed to
the City to purchase and develop
said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 287-97 passed August
13, 1997 by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Covenant Community Church
of Cleveland for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 13004-020, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 748-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 127-27-001, 130-07119, 130-10-071, 130-23-063 and 137-01049, under said Land Reutilization
Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1489-97
passed August 13, 1997 authorized
the sale of said parcels subject to
the direction of Board of Control;
and
Whereas, Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corp. or designee has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that pursuant to the authorization
of Ordinance No. 1489-97 passed
August 13, 1997 by the Cleveland
City Council, the Mayor is hereby
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Mt. Pleasant Now
Development Corp. or designee for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 127-27-001, 13007-119, 130-10-071, 130-23-063 and 13701-049, as described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than
the fair market value of said parcel
for uses in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program.

The City Record

14
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting
Director Terry, Directors Spellman,
Hamilton, Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 749-97.
By Director Spellman.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by The Albert M.
Higley Company, under City Contract No. 51794, pursuant to Ordinance No. 305-96 passed on March 8,
1996, and Board of Control Resolution No. 539-97, adopted July 7, 1997,
for the new Cleveland Browns Stadium concrete foundation, hereby is
approved:
Cuyahoga Concrete Company
Western Waterproofing, Inc.
Yeas: Mayor White, Directors Carmody, Konicek, Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Acting Director Terry,
Directors
Spellman,
Hamilton,
Nolan, Warren and Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Sobol Jordan.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates
for
original
entrance
positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
FREDDIE J. FENDERSON,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1997
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 97-192: 987 East 67th St.
John Semen, owner, appeals to
erect approximately 172 linear feet
of 6' high (including 1' of barbwire) chain link fence to complete
the enclosure of the 33' x 139' irregular shaped vacant lot located in a
Local Retail District at 987 E. 67 St.;

said fence to be in excess of the 4'6"
height limited by Sections 357.06,
357.09 and 357.13(b)(3) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-202: 15334 Yorick Ave.;
N.E.
Andrea Thompson, owner, appeals
to use for storage of personal vehicles in the 35' x 20' one-story masonry former private garage and also
the exterior area of the 36' x 156'
irregular shaped lot located in a
Two-Family District at 15334 Yorick
Ave.; said storage being contrary to
the residence limitations of Sections
337.03 and 337.23 of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-203: 10522 Edgewater
Dr., N.W.
Paul S. Novosel, owner, appeals to
maintain a 24' x 40' in ground private swimming pool on the rear of
a 146' x 370' irregular shaped lot
located in a Limited One-Family District and occupied by a one family
dwelling house at 10522 Edgewater
Dr.; said pool being partly within
the front half of the lot instead of
entirely in the rear half as required
by Section 337.23 of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-210: 4444 Rocky
River Dr., S.W.
Rocky River Puritas Inc., owner
c/o Marsha McCoy, and CVS Pharmacy Store, tenant, c/o Daniel Slane,
appeal to erect a 75' x 135' one-story
masonry store building and construct a 59 car accessory off-street
parking lot with related driveways,
maneuvering areas and a trash
enclosure all on the 173' x 452' irregular shaped corner parcel located in
a
Residence-Office
and
General
Retail District on the northwest corner of Rocky River Dr. and Puritas
Ave. and to be known as 4444 Rocky
River Dr.; said building to be located entirely within the ResidenceOffice District contrary to the use
limitations of Section 337.10 and a
portion of the parking lot (approximately 14 cars) to be within the specific setback building line area (75'
from centerline of Puritas Ave.) contrary to the prohibitions of Sections
357.07 and 357.14 and the trash enclosure to be within the required landscaped transition strip on the west
contrary to the limitations of Section 352.12 and the driveway near
the north property line on to Rocky
River Dr. not being in compliance
with the location distance required
in Section 343.18(c) of the Codified
Ordinances.
HUNTER MORRISON,
Acting Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997
At the Meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on, Monday, September 8, 1997, the following appeals
were heard by the Board, and, on
Monday, September 15, 1997 were decided by the Board.
The following appeals were Granted:
Calendar No. 97-191: 10101 Adelaide
Avenue, S.W.
Gloria Ramos, owner, appealed, to
enclose the 24' x 8' one-story open
front porch.

1632

September 17, 1997
The following appeals were Dismissed:
Calendar No.
Avenue.

97-190:

6700

Euclid

Calendar No. 97-71: 4511 Pearl Road,
S.W.
HUNTER MORRISON,
Acting Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
The following are in violation of
C.O. 623.14:
Richard Alt, last known address,
1742 West 29th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44113.
Richard
Norris,
last
known
address, 10127 South Blvd., Apartment 2, Cleveland, Ohio 44108.

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required
in
Advertisement
for
Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with
representations
made
on
these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”

September 17, 1997
CORRECTION
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1997
Interior Renovation at the Third District Police Station Building (17-90D),
for the Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance Nos.
1278-92 and 2053-91, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 22, 1992 and February 24, 1992,
respectively.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK WILL BE REQUIRED
FOR EACH SET OF PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
THE
DEPOSIT WILL BE REFUNDED IF
THE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED
IN
GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS AFTER THE
BID OPENING DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1997, 9:00 A.M. AT
THE THIRD DISTRICT POLICE
STATION BUILDING, 2001 PAYNE
AVENUE, SECOND FLOOR CONFERENCE ROOM.
September 3, 1997 and September 10, 1997
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1997
Installation of Runway and Taxiway
Lighting Systems, for the Division of
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 562-97,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, June 16, 1997.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1997, 12:00 NOON, IN THE
ENGINEERING
CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, 5300
RIVERSIDE DR., CLEVELAND,
OHIO.

The City Record
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1997, 10:00 A.M., IN
CLEVELAND CITY HALL, DIVISION OF ARCHITECTURE, ROOM
517, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO.
September 10, 1997 and September 17, 1997

A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1997, 2:00 P.M., AT
CLEVELAND CITY HALL, DIVISION OF ARCHITECTURE —
ROOM
517,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1997

September 17, 1997 and September 24, 1997

Chrysler, Dodge, Plymouth and Jeep
Parts, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1153-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
August 13, 1997.

Lubricants, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1154-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
August 13, 1997.
Six (6) 3-Wheel, Front High Dump,
Street Sweepers, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance Nos. 8918-96,
1476-96, 323-97 and 1113-97, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland.

September 10, 1997 and September 17, 1997

Hydraulic Side-Dumping Trailer with
Steel Bins, for the Division of Waste
Collection and Disposal, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1025-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 16, 1997.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1997
Rockefeller
Lagoon
Reconstruction
Site Improvements, for the Division
of Research, Planning and Development, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, as authorized
by Ordinance Nos. 1284-96, 2120-96,
556-97, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland October 14, 1996,
November 26, 1996 and May 5, 1997,
respectively.
A DEPOSIT OF TWENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK WILL BE REQUIRED
FOR EACH SET OF PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
THE
DEPOSIT WILL BE REFUNDED IF
THE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED
IN
GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS AFTER THE
BID OPENING DATE.
September 17, 1997 and September 24, 1997
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1997

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1997

Continental Airlines, Inc., Cleveland
2000/Bid Package 2 Concourse D
Civil Site Work, Cleveland International Airport. Plans and specifications may be obtained from the
offices of Morse Diesel International,
ROC Building, 5900 South Cargo
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, for the
refundable deposit of Two Hundred
Fifty Dollars ($250.00).
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1997, 10:00 A.M. AT THE
AFOREMENTIONED LOCATION,.
BIDS WILL BE RECEIVED AT
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC.,
ATTENTION:
BILL
FRAZER
(ROC
BUILDING
SAME
ADDRESS)
UNTIL
3:00
P.M.,
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1997.

September 10, 1997 and September 17, 1997
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1997
Park Maintenance Service Facilities
at Humphrey Park, East 40th St.
and Johnston Parkway - Construction of Three New Site Specific
Buildings, for the Division of Architecture,
Department
of
Parks,
Recreation and Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1284-96,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1997

Elgin Sweeper Parts and Labor, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No.
1149-97, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, August 13, 1997.

September 10, 1997 and September 17, 1997

Generator Repair, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized
by
Ordinance
No.
536-97,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, June 2, 1997.

15

General Office Renovation and Furniture for City Hall, for the Division of Architecture, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1282-96.

1633

September 17, 1997 and September 24, 1997
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1997
Southeast Service and Maintenance
Facility at Twinsburg Township,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2109-90,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on November 19, 1990.
A DEPOSIT OF TWO HUNDRED
FIFTY DOLLARS ($250.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK
WILL
BE
REQUIRED FOR EACH SET OF
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
THE
DEPOSIT
WILL
BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1997, 10:00 A.M. IN AUDITORIUM A OF THE PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO.
September 17, 1997 and September 24, 1997

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
____________
Res. No. 1673-97.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution urging
the Director of Public Safety and
the Chief of Police to make policy
changes for high-speed police pursuits in the City of Cleveland to
apprehend criminal suspects without
endangering the general public.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
Division of Police has policy protocol Number 10-95 to deal with the

16
persons suspected of committing a
felony and who attempt to flee
apprehension in a moving vehicle;
and
Whereas, the act of high speed
police pursuit often involves vehicles exceeding the speed limit,
which excess can pose a threat to
the safety of the general public; and
Whereas, Council has researched
high speed police pursuit protocols
in police divisions in other major
municipalities throughout the United
States; and
Whereas, Council based upon its’
research recommends that the following changes to policy protocol
10-95 be implemented by the Director of Public Safety and the Chief
of the Division of Police to ensure
the safety of the general public; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland.
Section 1. That the following policy protocol regarding high speed
police pursuits be implemented by
the Division of Police, Department
of Public Safety of the City of Cleveland:
1. Jurisdiction
That the policy and procedures of
the Division of Police relating to
high speed pursuit in order to apprehend a criminal suspect is under the
control of the Director of Public
Safety and Chief of Police for the
City of Cleveland.
2. Initiation of Police Pursuit
That the decision to initiate a pursuit must be based on the pursuing
officer’s conclusion that the immediate danger to the public created
by the pursuit is less than the immediate or potential danger to the public should the suspect remain at
large. Any law enforcement officer
in an authorized emergency vehicle
may initiate a vehicular pursuit
when all of the following criteria
are met:
(a) The suspect exhibits the
intention to avoid arrest by using a
motorized vehicle to flee apprehension for an alleged felony or misdemeanor where a full custody arrest
is authorized.
(b) The suspect operating the
vehicle refuses to stop at the direction of the officer; and
(c) The suspect, if allowed to flee,
would present a danger to human
life or cause serious injury to the
general public.
That the pursuing officer shall
consider
factors
in
determining
whether to initiate a pursuit such as
weather, time of day, amount of
traffic, road conditions and the
capability of the pursuit vehicle,
population density, geographic location, proximity to school areas during school hours and familiarity of
the area.
3. Discontinuance of a Vehicle Pursuit
A vehicle pursuit shall be discontinued when the following circumstances occur:
(a) Loss of communication with
the CCS or sector supervisor.
(b) If there is sufficient information to identify and file on the fleeing suspect, and termination of the
pursuit will not result in the lost of
vital evidence.
(c) The distance between the pursuing vehicle and the vehicle being
pursued becomes so great that further pursuit is futile.

The City Record
(d) If the driver shows a complete
disregard for his/her life or the
lives of others as evidenced by
activity such as not attempting to
slow for red lights or stop signs, driving left of center into oncoming
traffic, or excessive speed relative
to road/traffic conditions, etc.
4. Responsibilities of the Pursuing
Officer
(a) It shall be the responsibility
of the pursuing officer to immediately notify the Communications
Control Section that a pursuit is
underway.
The
pursuing
officer
shall provide reasoning for the pursuit, direction of travel, description
of the vehicle and license plate number, number of occupants and speeds
involved.
(b) The pursuing officer shall
abandon the pursuit when the danger to life and/or property outweighs the need for immediate
apprehension. The pursuing officer
shall also abandon the pursuit if it
should persist for more than 60 seconds unless directed by that officer’s supervisor.
(c) It shall be the responsibility
of the pursuing officer to use emergency lights and sirens at all times
during the duration of the pursuit.
The pursuing officer shall terminate
the pursuit if radio contact is lost
with the Communications Section
and/or other units involved in the
pursuit are lost, except where extraordinary circumstances exist. The
pursuing officer shall not engage in,
or continue, vehicular pursuits in
areas where the officer is unfamiliar, exceptions will be permitted
only in the most grievous of circumstances.
(d) The pursuing officer shall not
make any attempt to overtake or
pass the pursued vehicle. At no time
shall the pursuing officer exceed the
maximum speed limit by no more
than 20 mph as long as life or property is not endangered or the following circumstances; areas with
increase traffic and pedestrian density; in a school zone during school
hours.
(e) There shall be no paralleling
of the pursuit route, unless the pursuit
passes
through
a
unit’s
assigned patrol area. Any police
unit that is paralleling shall not
join or interfere with the pursuit
and shall not violate traffic laws to
keep pace with the pursuit.
(f) Stationary roadblocks and the
ramming of vehicles are prohibited
except
in
critical
circumstances
such as preventing injury to pedestrians.
5. Motorcycles and Unmarked Units
That unmarked police vehicles
and motorcycle units may pursue
vehicles as a primary unit only until
the arrival of a marked unit. An
unmarked
police
vehicle
and/or
motorcycle
unit
shall
terminate
involvement when a marked police
vehicle with a lightbar becomes
available to take over the pursuit.
Any unmarked police vehicle or
motorcycle unit shall adhere to the
vehicle pursuit policy when involved
in a high speed pursuit. At no time
shall an unmarked unit initiate or
become involved in a pursuit unless
equipped with emergency red or
blue lights and siren.
6. Administrative Responsibilities
Upon notification that a vehicular
pursuit incident is in progress, the
sector
supervisor
shall
assume
responsibility for monitoring control

1634

September 17, 1997
and termination of the pursuit as it
progresses. The supervisor must
grant permission for the pursuit to
continue or it shall be terminated. It
shall be the responsibility of the
supervisor to control and direct the
pursuit by directing specific units
into and out of the pursuit; redesignating primary support or other
back
up
unit
responsibilities;
approving or ordering alternative
tactics; or terminating the pursuit in
accordance to departmental policy.
7. Jurisdictional Responsibilities
between Cities regarding High Speed
Pursuit.
(a) In the event that a pursuit
from another community enters into
the City of Cleveland, the supervisor will monitor the pursuit and
determine if Cleveland cars are to
be permitted to join the pursuit once
notified by Police Communications.
(b) Should a pursuit enter into
another community, the Cleveland
supervisor shall remain in charge
unless control is requested by another agency, it shall be the responsibility of the supervisor to instruct
the Communications Control Section
to notify the other agency of the
pursuit and any request for assistance.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit a copy of this resolution to
the Director of Public Safety and to
the Chief of the Police Division.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Res. No. 1674-97.
By Councilman Moran.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of location of a
D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit
to 6625 Denison Ave,
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of location of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit from Permit No.
9129537, Tymocs Cafe Inc., 777 Starkweather Ave., 1st Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio 44113, to Permit No.
0769039, Blume inc., DBAPub, 6626
Denison Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44102;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and

September 17, 1997
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of location of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit from Permit No.
9129537, Tymocs Cafe Inc., 777 Starkweather Ave., 1st Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio 44113, to Permit No.
0769039, Blume inc., DBAPub, 6626
Denison Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Res. No. 1675-97.
By Councilman Robinson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the stock of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit to 4025 E. 131st St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the stock
of a C1 and C2 and Liquor Permit
to Permit No. 0012160, AAAMFood
Corp., DBASpeedy Superette, 4025 E.
131st St., Cleveland, Ohio 44105; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and

The City Record
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the stock
of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to Permit No. 0012160, AAAMFood Corp..
DBASpeedy Superette, 4025 E. 131st
St.,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Res. No. 1676-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 1303 Clark
Ave. & Gas Pumps.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 9554967, West
14th & Clark Corp., 1303 Clark Ave.
& Gas Pumps, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
to Permit No. 6591277, OSO Inc., 1303
Clark Ave. & Gas Pumps, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and

1635

17
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 9554967, West
14th & Clark Corp., 1303 Clark Ave.
& Gas Pumps, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
to Permit No. 6591277, OSO Inc., 1303
Clark Ave. & Gas Pumps, Cleveland,
Ohio 44109; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Res. No. 1677-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency resolution
objecting to the transfer of ownership and
location of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit to 700 St. Clair
Avenue W.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership and location of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 2760874, 5304
Detroit Inc. Sol Tushman RCVR 1st
Fl. & Bsmt. & Patio, 5304 Detroit
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44113, to Permit No. 26239710005, Fairview Hospitality Inc., 700 St. Clair Ave. W,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and

18
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership and location of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 2760874, 5304
Detroit Inc. Sol Tushman RCVR 1st
Fl. & Bsmt. & Patio, 5304 Detroit
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44113, to Permit No. 26239710005, Fairview Hospitality Inc., 700 St. Clair Ave. W,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 8, 1997.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.
Res. No. 1678-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 Liquor Permit to 1276-80 W. 6th
St.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 0418591, Della
Baltimore, 10408-12 Union Ave. 1st
Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
to Permit No. 9555006, West 6th
Street Partners Inc., 1276-80 W. 6th
St., Cleveland, Ohio 44113; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard

The City Record
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 0418591, Della
Baltimore, 10408-12 Union Ave. 1st
Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
to Permit No. 9555006, West 6th
Street Partners Inc., 1276-80 W. 6th
St.,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44113;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 8, 1997.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.
Res. No. 1679-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit to 1012 Sumner
Court, and repealing Res. No. 110297, objecting to said transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected
to the transfer of ownership of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 1012 Sumner Court, by
Res. No. 1102-97, adopted June 16,
1997; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw
its
objection
to
the
above transfer of ownership and
consents to said transfer of ownership; and

1636

September 17, 1997
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
1012 Sumner Court, be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Res. No.
1102-97, containing said objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer of ownership
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted September 8, 1997.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.
Ord. No. 1663-97.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance consenting to and approving the issuance
of a permit for the Cleveland AIDS
Walk on September 28, 1997, sponsored by the Health Issues Task
Force of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Cleveland AIDS
Walk Race, sponsored by the Health
Issues Task Force of Cleveland, on
September 28, 1997, beginning at
Edgewater
Park,
through
Edgewater Park to Edgewater Drive,
west on Edgewater Drive to the
Cleveland - Lakewood border, outside the City limits into the City of
Lakewood, return back into Cleveland at West 117th Street and
Clifton, east on Clifton to West
Blvd., West Blvd. back into Edgewater Park and finish, provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police or safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.

September 17, 1997
Ord. No. 1664-97.
By Councilman Moran.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
issue a permit to St. Leo’s the Great
Church to stretch a banner across
Broadview Road at 4900 Broadview
Road for the period from August 15,
1997 to October 15, 1997, inclusive,
publicizing their Octoberfest.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to St.
Leo’s the Great Church to install,
maintain and remove a banner
across Broadview Road at 4900
Broadview Road for the period from
September 15, 1997 to October 15,
1997, inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Ord. No. 1665-97.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
issue a permit to the Rockefeller
Park Cultural Arts Association to
stretch banners on eight utility poles
on Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd.
between East Blvd. and Ansel Rd. for
the period of August 29, 1997 to September 16, 1997, inclusive, publicizing
the celebration of “One World Day”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is hereby
authorized and directed to issue a
permit to the Rockefeller Park Cultural Arts Association, South Park
Boulevard, Shaker Heights, Ohio
44120;
to
install,
maintain
and
remove eight (8) banners on Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard
between the freeway ramp to East
Boulevard and Ansel Road in Rockefeller Park, for the celebration of
“One World Day”, for the period
from August 29, 1997 to September

The City Record
16, 1997, inclusive. Said banners
shall be approved by the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Ord. No. 1666-97.
By Councilmen Patmon and Willis.
An emergency ordinance consenting to and approving the issuance
of a permit for the Race for the
Cure on September 28, 1997, sponsored by Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this Council
consents to and approves the holding
of the Race for the Cure, sponsored
by Hermes Race Systems, on September 28, 1997, beginning at Wade
Oval to East Blvd., East Blvd. to E.
99th St., E. 99th St. to MLK, MLK to
Oval Drive, Oval Dr. to Wade Oval,
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police or safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and all
liability resulting from the issuance
of the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Ord. No. 1667-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for a footrace on September
7, 1997 sponsored by Hermes Race
Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1637

19
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of a footrace, sponsored
by Hermes Race Systems, the route
is; start at W. 38th and Lorain,
Lorain to Abbey, Abbey to Columbus,
Columbus to Riverbed, Riverbed to
Elm, Elm to River, River to Center,
Center to Riverbed and return the
same route, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police or
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Ord. No. 1668-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for a Walk-A-Thon/Pray-AThon on September 20, 1997 sponsored by the Office of Religious/Diocese of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of a Walk-A-Thon/Praya-Thon, sponsored by the Office of
Religious/Diocese of Cleveland, on
September 20, 1997, beginning at
East Side - St. Vitas Parish, the
route: come out of the parking lot
at St. Vitas and go to St. Clair, then
head west on the north side of St.
Clair Ave. until walkers reach W.
3rd St. Cross to the west side of W.
3rd St. and proceed south to the
south
west
quadrant
of
Public
Square. South Side - Our Lady of
Lourdes Parish, the route: come out
of the parking lot at Our Lady of
Lourdes and proceed to the west
side of Broadway Ave. Follow on
the west side of the street Broadway
Avenue all the was until it meets
Orange Ave. Make a left on Orange
Ave. and stay on the west side of
the street. Follow Orange until it
becomes Ontario St. and then follow
to Public Square and make a left
and go to the southwest Quadrant
of Public Square, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police or
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from

20
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Ord. No. 1669-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency ordinance consenting to and approving the issuance
of a permit for the Walk for Diabetes (Walktoberfest) on October 5,
1997, sponsored by the American
Diabetes Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Walk for Diabetes (Walktoberfest), sponsored by
the American Diabetes Association,
on October 5, 1997, starting at Nautica Stage, West Bank of the Flats,
west on Main Ave. to Center St., east
on Center St. to Columbus Rd., east
on Columbus Rd. to Merwin Ave.,
north on Merwin Ave. to W. Superior Ave., east on W. Superior Ave. to
Public Square, south on Public
Square to Ontario Ave., south on
Ontario Ave. to Huron Rd., east on
Huron Rd. to Prospect Ave., east on
Prospect Ave. to E. 18th St., north
on E. 18th St. to Superior Ave., west
on Superior Ave. to E. 9th St., north
on E. 9th St. to Erieside Ave., west
on Erieside Ave. to W. 3rd St., south
on W. 3rd St. to Lakeside Ave., west
on Lakeside Ave to W. 9th St., north
on W. 9th St. to Front Ave., west on
Front Ave. to Old River Rd., south
on Old River Rd. to Merwin Ave.,
south on Merwin Ave. to Columbus
Rd., west on Columbus Rd. to Center St., west on Center St. to Main
Ave., east on Main Ave. to the boardwalk, east on the boardwalk and
back to Nautica Stage where walkers will disperse, provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police or
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1670-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for a footrace on September
1, 1997 sponsored by the Cleveland
Browns and Hermes Race Systems.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of a footrace, sponsored
by the Cleveland Browns and Hermes Race Systems, start at W. 3rd
and Lakeside, north on Erieside,
Erieside to E. 9th, across to N. Marginal to E. 26 and return the same
route, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police or safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in
the event. Said permit shall further
provide that the City of Cleveland
shall be fully indemnified from any
and all liability resulting from the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Ord. No. 1671-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for a Walk-A-Thon on September 20, 1997 sponsored by the
Interchurch
Council
of
Greater
Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of a Walk-A-Thon, sponsored by the Interchurch Council of
Greater Cleveland, start west on
Euclid to Huron (using sidewalk on
south side of street), turn left,
southwest on Huron to Prospect
(using sidewalk on southeast side
of street), turn right, west on
Prospect to Huron (using sidewalk
on south side of street), turn left,
southwest on Huron to East 6th St
(using sidewalk on southeast side
of street), turn left, south and then
west on East 6th to Ontario (using
sidewalks on east and then north
side of street), turn right, north on
Ontario to St. Clair (using sidewalk
on east side of street), turn left,
west on St. Clair to Old River Road
(using sidewalk on south side of
street), turn right, north on Old
River Road to Front (using side-

1638

September 17, 1997
walk on east side of street), turn
right, east on Front to West 9th
(using sidewalk on south side of
street), turn right, south on West
9th to West Lakeside (using sidewalk on west side of street), turn
right, east on West Lakeside/Lakeside to Mall B (using sidewalk on
south side of street), turn right,
south through Mall B to St. Clair,
turn left, east on St. Clair to East
12th (using sidewalk on south side
of street), turn right, south on East
12th to Chester (using sidewalk on
west side of street), turn left, east
on Chester to East 21st (using sidewalk on north side of street), turn
right, north on East 21st to Euclid
(using sidewalk on east side of
street), turn left, east on Euclid to
2230 Euclid (using sidewalk on
south side of street), end, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police or safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Ord. No. 1672-97.
By Councilmen Skrha and Smith.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for a 5K and 10K Walkathon
an October 14, 1997 sponsored by the
OLA/St. Joseph Center.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this Council
consents to and approves the holding
of a 5K and 10K Walkathon, sponsored by the OLA/St. Joseph Center,
with the 5K and 10K walkers beginning at OLA/St. Joseph Center Parking lot on Kenilworth, head (east) on
Kenilworth to W. 11th St., turn right
circle Lincoln Park 2 times, return to
W. 11th/Kenilworth intersection, turn
left onto W. 11th walk to University
Rd., turn right onto University Rd.
walk to W. 10th St., turn right onto
W. 10th St. walk to stop sign, veer
left onto Professor Ave. (stay on
right side of street), walk to Jefferson, turn right onto Jefferson walk
to Starkweather (cross W. 14th to
west side of W. 14th), turn left on
West 14th St. walk (south) to Clark
Ave., turn right onto Clark Ave. &
walk across bridge (over highway)
to Scranton Rd., turn right onto
Scranton Rd. walk to Kenilworth,
turn right onto Kenilworth, return to
OLA/St. Joseph Center (on your left
on other side of highway overpass)
5K WALKERS STOP HERE!; 10K
walkers continue walking on Kenil-

September 17, 1997
worth to W. 11th St., turn left onto
W. 11th St. walk to Abbey Rd., turn
left onto Abbey Ave. (cross street to
north side of Abbey), cross Abbey
Ave. Bridge to West 20th Street
(enjoy the view of downtown!), cross
street to south side of Abbey Avenue,
turn left and return across the Abbey
Avenue Bridge, (enjoy the view of
the industrial side of the flats!), walk
to West 11th St., turn left to University Rd., walk to W. 10th St., turn
right onto W. 10th St., walk to Literary (right side of St.), turn right onto
Literary walk to Kenilworth (veer
left & cross street), turn right onto
Kenilworth, return to OLA/St. Joseph
Center, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police or safety forces as may be necessary in
order to protect the participants in
the event. Said permit shall further
provide that the City of Cleveland
shall be fully indemnified from any
and all liability resulting from the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Ord. No. 1680-97.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 5709 and 5713 Whittier Avenue to Bernard and Marsha
Pettus.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
hereby authorized to sell Permanent
Parcel No. 104-18-077 and 104-18-078, as
more fully described in Section 2
below, to Bernard and Marsha Pettus.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 104-18-077
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the West-

The City Record
erly 32 feet from front to rear of
Sublot No. 92 and the Easterly 20
feet from front to rear of Sublot No.
93 in the Luther Moses Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 340, as shown by the
recorded plat on Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
13
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a parcel of land having a frontage of 52
feet on the Northerly side of Whittier Avenue N.E. (formerly Sixth
Avenue N.E.), and extending back of
equal width 180 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 104-18-078
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
91 and the Easterly 8 feet front to
rear of Sublot No. 92 in Luther
Moses Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 340
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 7 of Maps, Page 13 of Cuyahoga County Records and together
forming a parcel of land 48 feet
front on the Northerly side of Whittier Avenue, N.E., and extending
back of equal width 180 feet as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Ord. No. 1681-97.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 8100-8106 and 8108
Hough Avenue to Kelly Chapman.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722

1639

21
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-01-047 and
119-01-048, as more fully described in
Section 2 below, to Kelly Chapman.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 119-01-047
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 11 in the L.M. and A.J.
Holt’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 391,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Records and bounded
and described as follows: Beginning
on the Southerly line of Hough
Avenue, N.E. at its point of intersection with the Easterly line of
East 81st Street (formerly Princeton
Street); thence Easterly along said
Southerly line of Hough Avenue,
N.E., 60 feet to the Northwesterly
corner of land conveyed to George
J. Hardway by Deed dated February
4, 1889 and recorded in Volume 438,
Page
639
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; Thence Southerly, along
the Westerly line of land so conveyed to George J. Hardaway and
parallel with Westerly line of said
East 81st Street, 87 feet and 10-1/4
inches to the Northeasterly corner of
land conveyed to Effie I. Jackett by
Deed dated April 24, 1923 and recorded in Volume 2800, Page 582 of
Cuyahoga County Records; Thence
Westerly along the Northerly line of
land so conveyed to Effie I. Jackett
and parallel with said Southerly line
of Hough Avenue, N.E., 60 feet to
the Easterly line of East 81st Street;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of East 81st Street, 87 feet
and 10-1/4 inches to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Appurtenant Rights for Use of
Driveway recorded in Volume 438,
Page
639
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records.
Easement for Common Driveway
over the Southerly 4 feet of premises
in Caption, the Northerly 4 feet of
the Premises Adjacent to the South,
and over a strip of land 8 feet wide
lying Easterly of and adjacent to
the Easterly Line of Premises in
Caption and More Land, recorded in
Volume 2835, Page 81 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 119-01-048
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 11 in L.M. and A.J. Holt’s

22
Re-Subdivision of Sublot No. 12 of
the Subdivision made by the heirs of
O. Hough, deceased, of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 391
and 392, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 29
of Cuyahoga County Records. and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the South line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., at a point 60
feet East of the Northwest corner of
said Sublot No. 11 and which is also
60 feet East of the East line of East
81st
Street
(formerly
Princeton
Street); thence South parallel with
the West line of said Sublot No. 11,
147 feet to the South line of said
Sublot No. 11; thence East on the
South line of said Sublot No. 11; 45
feet; thence North parallel with the
East line of said Sublot No. 11 to the
South line of Hough Avenue, N.E.;
thence West along the South line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., 45 feet to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Ord. No. 1682-97.
By Councilmen Robinson, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 10813 Eliott Avenue;
3345 East 121st Street, 3263 East
130th Street, 3278 East 140th Street,
3386 East 117th Street, 3415 East
125th Street, 9616 Gibson Avenue to
Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corporation or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, adminis-

The City Record
tered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 127-19-061,
130-04-116, 130-07-059, 130-11-113, 13021-108, 130-22-154, 135-02-054, as more
fully described in Section 2 below,
to Mt. Pleasant Now Development
Corporation or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 127-19-061
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
29 in the Walton Brothers Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 442, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 15 of
Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Eliot Avenue,
S.E., and extending back of equal
width 125 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
P.P. No. 130-04-116
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
163 in Crawford-Woodhill Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 436, 445 and 444,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 47 of Maps, Page 12 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 121st Street and extends back
between parallel lines 139 feet deep,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also, subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
P.P. No. 130-07-059
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
224 in the Walton Bros. Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 445 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 14 of Maps,
Page
6
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records. Sublot No. 224 in the Walton Brothers Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Township Lot No. 445, as shown by the
recorded plat of said Subdivision in
Volume 14 of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records. Said Sublot
No. has a frontage of 40 feet on the
Easterly side of East 130th Street,
(formerly Germania Avenue) and
extends back between lines 150 feet,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 130-11-113
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
79 in Behm-Homestead Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 446, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 45 of Maps, Page
13 of Cuyahoga County Records, and

1640

September 17, 1997
being 40 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 140th Street and extending back between parallel lines
145.31 feet, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
P.P. No. 130-21-108
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
36 in Karoline Knopf’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 444, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 32 of Maps, Page
23 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 117th Street (formerly
Adam Street), and extending back
of equal width 127 feet deep, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P.P. No. 130-22-154
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
162, in the McHenry-Sinnott Realty
Company’s Mount Pleasant View
Subdivision No. 3 of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 445, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 49 of Maps, Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 125th Street and extending
back 145.45 feet on the Northerly
line, 145.50 feet on the Southerly line
and having a rear line of 40 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P.P. No. 135-02-054
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
70 in Gibson and Benham’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 449, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 20 of
Maps, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 35 feet front on
the Southerly side of Gibson Avenue,
S.E., and extending back of equal
width, 91.06 feet deep on the Westerly side, 91.52 feet deep on the
Easterly side and 35.01 feet wide in
the rear, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.

September 17, 1997
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Ord. No. 1683-97.
By Councilmen Robinson, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 14700-10 Kinsman
Road to Evangelistic Temple of
Faith, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 139-11-001, as
more fully described in Section 2
below, to Evangelistic Temple of
Faith, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 139-11-001
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublots
Nos. 417 and 418 in the Parkhill
Land
and
Allotment
Company’s
Shaker Overlook Subdivision of part
of Original Warrensville Township
Lot No. 51, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 59 of Maps, Page
10 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 63.02 feet front on the Southerly side of Kinsman Road S.E. and
being 122 feet deep on the Easterly
line 103.53 feet and arc along the
Westerly line, which is also the
Easterly line of East 147th Street
and being 96.59 feet wide in the
rear, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to: Restrictions recited in
Volume 2360, Page 501 of Cuyahoga
County Records, dated 1/6/20.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months

The City Record
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Ord. No. 1684-97.
By Councilmen Skrha, Rybka, Patmon, White, Jackson and Westbrook
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 930 Linn Drive; 3316
East 49 Street; 4804 Vivian Avenue;
3295, 3275, 3271 East 48th Street; 3272
East 49 Street; 3456, 3458 East 53
Street; 3546 East 82 Street and 9407
Pratt Avenue to Cleveland Housing
Network Ltd. Partnership XIV.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 109-20-033 as
more fully described in Section 2
below, to Cleveland Housing Network Ltd Partnership XIV.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 109-20-033
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
74 in the Realty Underwriting Com-

1641

23
pany’s Lakeview Road Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 371 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 63 of Maps,
Page
30
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, said Sublot No. 74 has a
frontage of 41 feet on the Westerly
side of Linn Drive, N.E., and extends
back between parallel lines 125 feet,
appears by said plat.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 131-18-026 as
more fully described in Section 4
below, to Cleveland Housing Network Ltd. Partnership XIV.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 3 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 131-18-026
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
9 in Joseph Stanley’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 284, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps, Page
14 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 49 Street (formerly
Petrie Street) and extending back of
equal width 149 feet 10-1/5 inches to
East 49 Place in the rear, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 131-18-032 as
more fully described in Section 6
below, Cleveland Housing Network
Ltd. Partnership XIV.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 5 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 131-18-032
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
35 in Joseph Stanley’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 284 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps, Page
14 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 40 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 48th Street (formerly
Ballou Street) and extending back
117 feet 10 3/4 inches on the
Southerly line of Vivan Avenue,
S.E., and having a rear line of 40
feet, as appears by said plat.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 131-18-033 as
more fully described in Section 8
below, to Cleveland Housing Network Ltd. Partnership XIV.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 7 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 131-18-033
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being an unimproved Lot, and known as being
Sublot No. 34 in Joseph Stanley’s
Subdivision of part of Original One

24
Hundred Acre Lot No. 284 as shown
by the recorded Plat in Volume 13
of Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 35 feet front
on the Easterly side of East 48th
Street (formerly Ballou Street) and
extending back of equal width 117
feet 10-3/4 inches as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less but
subject to all legal highways.
Also, subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 131-19-055 as
more fully described in Section 10
below, to Cleveland Housing Network Ltd. Partnership XIV.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 9 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 131-19-055
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
38 in Joseph Stanley’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 284, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps, Page
14 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being a parcel of land 35 feet front
on the Easterly side of East 48th
Street, (formerly Ballou Street), and
extending back of equal width 117
feet 10-3/4 inches deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 131-19-056 as
more fully described in Section 12
below, to Cleveland Housing Network Ltd. Partnership XIV.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 11 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 131-19-056
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
39, in Joseph Stanley’s Allotment of
a part of Original Lot No. 284 in said
City. Said Sublot No. 39 has a
frontage of 35 feet on the East side
of Ballou Street, now East 48th
Street, and extends back 117-103/4/100 feet deep, as per plat of said
Allotment recorded in Volume 13 of
Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County
Records, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 131-19-087 as
more fully described in Section 14
below, Cleveland Housing Network
Ltd. Partnership XIV.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 13 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 131-19-087
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
284 and bounded and described as
follows:

The City Record
Beginning at a point in the Westerly line of East 49th Street (formerly Petrie Street, so called) 25
feet West from the Easterly line of
said Original Lot and 300 feet South
from the Northerly line of said Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 284;
thence South along the line of said
street 40 feet; thence West at right
angles to said street 149.83 feet;
thence North parallel to East 49th
Street 40 feet; thence East 149.85
feet to the place of beginning.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 131-21-068 as
more fully described in Section 16
below, Cleveland Housing Network
Ltd. Partnership XIV.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 15 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 131-21-068
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and bounded and described as
follows, to wit: and known as being
the Southerly 21.5 feet of Sublot No.
91
in
Heisel,
Hamm,
Wagner
Wagenmann’s Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 316, 320 and 321, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 6 of
Maps, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 21.5 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 53rd
Street (formerly Goethe Street) and
extending back of equal width 125
feet, as appears by said plat.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 131-21-069 as
more fully described in Section 18
below, Cleveland Housing Network
Ltd. Partnership XIV.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 17 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 131-21-069
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
90 in Heisel, Hamm, Wagner and
Wageman’s Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos.
316, 320 and 321, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 6 of Maps,
Page
3
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and forming a parcel of
land 30 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 53rd Street and extending back between parallel lines 125
feet as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 133-06-030 as
more fully described in Section 20
below, Cleveland Housing Network
Ltd. Partnership XIV.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 19 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 133-06-030
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
46 in E. S. Gillett’s Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
447, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 9 of Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40

1642

September 17, 1997
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 82nd Street (formerly Stafford
Avenue), and extending back of
equal width 120 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 136-13-096 as
more fully described in Section 22
below, to Cleveland Housing Network Ltd. Partnership XIV
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 21 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows.
P.P. No. 136-13-096
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
45 in Lucy M. Gaylord et al Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 465, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 14 of
Maps, Page 56 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Pratt Avenue,
S.E., and extending back of equal
width 167.55 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 23. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 24. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 25. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 26. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.
Ord. No. 1685-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Community
Relations Board to apply for and
accept a grant from the Cleveland
Foundation for the Strategic Planning Retreat for members of the
Community Relations Board.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record

September 17, 1997
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Community Relations Board is hereby
authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the amount of $2,500.00, from
the Cleveland Foundation, to conduct
the Strategic Planning Retreat for
members of the Community Relations
Board, for the purposes set forth in
the application and according thereto;
that the Director of the Community
Relations Board is hereby authorized
to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under said grant; and that said funds
be and they hereby are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the application for said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 1685-97-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten herein, is hereby approved in all respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 8, 1997.
Effective September 16, 1997.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
_____________

Monday, September 15, 1997
Public Health
Committee: 10:00
A.M. — Present: Robinson, Chairman; Zone, Vice Chairman; Gordon,
Jackson, Medena. Excused: Britt,
Skrha.

Finance Committee: 2:00 P.M. —
Present:
Westbrook,
Chairman;
Polensek, Vice Chairman; Coats,
Johnson, Lewis, Patmon, Robinson,
Rybka,
Smith,
Zone.
Excused:
Britt.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, October 1, 1997
1:00 P.M.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the Council Committee on City Planning will
hold a public hearing in the Mercedes
Cotner Committee Room 217, City
Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on Wednesday,
October 1, 1997, at 1:00 P.M., to consider the following ordinances now
pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 942-97.
By Councilman Smith.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of lands between Auburn
Avenue, S.W. and Barber Avenue,
S.W., east of W. 25 Street and west
of Scranton Road. (Map Change No.
1919, Sheet No. 1).
Ord. No. 1223-97.
By Councilman Smith.
An ordinance to change the Use
and Area Districts of lands on the

25
westerly side of West 26 Street
between Hancock Avenue, S.W. and
Monroe Avenue, S.W. (Map Change
No. 1948, Sheet No 1).
Ord. No. 1329-97.
By Councilman Rybka.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of lands on the northwesterly side of Warner Road, S.E.
between Maryland Avenue, S.E. and
Grand Division. (Map Change No.
1950, Sheet No. 6).
Ord. No. 1331-97.
By Councilman Rybka.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of lands on the northwesterly side of Warner Road, S.E. from
Maryland Avenue, S.E. to approximately 151' north of Beman Avenue,
S.E. (Map Change No. 1951, Sheet No.
6).
Ord. No. 1332-97.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
on the east side of W. 96 Street,
north of Madison Avenue, N.W.
and south of the Railroad tracks.
(Map Change No. 1952, Sheet No.
1).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
EDWARD W. RYBKA,
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
September 17, 1997 and September 24, 1997

Index to Council Proceedings
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments
Banners
Permit — Rockefeller Park Cultural Arts Association — August 29, 1997 to September 16,
1997 (O 1665-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
Permit — St. Leo’s Great Church — August 15, 1997 to October 15, 1997 (O 1664-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1637
City Planning Commission
Amend Section 2 of Resolution No. 483-95 passed June 5, 1995 — relating to the formation
of the Cleveland Theater District as a special improvement District (R 1746-97) . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 357.13 of the Codified Ordinances No. 925-95 — passed September 15, 1995
— relating to yard encroachments (O 1740-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 561.02 and 561.03 of the Codified Ordinances — enacted by Ordinance No.
1328-82 passed September 20, 1982 supplement said ordinances by enacting new Section
210.03 — retitle Chapter 561 for Clean Hard Fill — relating to la (O 1739-97) . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use District of lands bounded by Waterman Avenue, S.E. E. 63 Street and E. 61
Street (O 1745-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use, Area and Height Districts — East 89th Street, Cumberland Avenue
(O 1764-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . 1623

. . . . . . . . . . 1622
. . . . . . . . . . 1625
. . . . . . . . . . 1625

Communications
1996 Annual Report, Protecting your clean water investment — Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District (F 1731-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CMCC Financials 1996 — Cleveland Minority Cable Channel (F 1733-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Certificate of result of election on issue 1, Proposed Charter Amendment — Board
of Elections (F 1729-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Emergency Requisition (RE-97649) — Division of Purchases & Supplies (F 1727-97). . . . . .
Excess Property - Reference No. 010-97 — Purchase & Supplies Division (F 1728-97) . . . . .
Excess Property - Reference No. 011-97 — Division of Purchases and Supplies
(F 1730-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1643

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1621
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1621
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1621
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1621
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1621
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1621

The City Record

26

September 17, 1997

Manhole Rehabilitation Contract MR-8 — Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District
(F 1735-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Notice to Council of subsidiary Agreement — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
(F 1734-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Request to establish the classification of Assistant Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses — Civil Service Commission (F 1736-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summary of OC Spray training and usage by the Division of Police — April 1, 1997 to June
30, 1997 (F 1732-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Two proposed Scope of Services for Monitor of the Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Expansion Project (F 1765-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1621
. . . . . . . . . . 1621
. . . . . . . . . . 1621
. . . . . . . . . . 1621
. . . . . . . . . . 1621

Community Development
Eliott Avenue, 10813, East 121 St., 3345, East 130th St., 3263, East 140th St., 3278, East
117th St., 3386, East 125th St., 3415 — Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corporation
(O 1682-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Avenue, 8100-8106 and 8108 — Kelly Chapman (O 1681-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Road, 14700-10 — Evangelistic Temple of Faith Inc. (O 1683-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Linn Drive, 930, East 49th St., 3316, Vivian Ave., 4804, East 48th St., 3295, 3275, 3271,
East 49th St., 3272, East 53rd St., 3456, 3458, East 82nd St., 3546 and Pratt Avenue,
9407 — Cleveland Housing Network Ltd. Partnership XIV (O 1684-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Whittier Avenue, 5709 and 5713 — Bernard and Marsha Pettus (O 1680-97) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1640
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1639
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1641

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1641
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1639

Community Relations Board
Community Relations Board — apply and accept grant — Cleveland Foundation for Strategic
Planning Retreat (O 1685-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1642
Condolences
Archie, Danyelle Aissa (R 1750-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1621
Dickerson, Robert W.H. (R 1751-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1621
Lewis, Mildred L. (R 1749-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1621
Congratulations
Baran, Edward & Olga (R 1757-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chatman, Anna (R 1758-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detective Calabrese, Rich (R 1756-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harmonia-Chopin Singing Society (R 1752-97) . . . . . . . . . .
Our Lady of Mercy Church (R 1759-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scott, Shed (R 1754-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Stanislaus Dad’s Club 50th Anniversary (R 1753-97) .
Stack, Richard P. & Elizabeth (R 1755-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tarter, Robert R. and Edna 50th Wedding Anniversary

...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
(R

........
........
........
........
........
........
........
........
1761-97)

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1621
. 1621
. 1621
. 1621
. 1621
. 1621
. 1621
. 1621
. 1621

Economic Development Department
Amend Section 2 of Resolution No. 483-95 passed June 5, 1995 — relating to the formation
of the Cleveland Theater District as a special improvement District (R 1746-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
Finance Department
Contract of Computer hardware, software and supplies, office furniture, equipment, data
processing services, employee training, and building equipment and maintenance —
provide professional services in conjunction with the year 2000 (O 1744-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1624
Contract of anthracite filter media (O 1458-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627-1628
Contract of microfiche processing (O 1472-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Contract of towel and linen service (O 1743-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1624
Employ one or more professional financial and information service consultants — audit
and review the City’s fund disbursement and transfer procedures (O 1742-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1624
Mayor to apply to the District One Public Works Integrating Committee — state funding
of various infrastructure capital improvement projects (O 1450-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
Health Division
Accept Grant — Ohio Department of Health for the 1998 Federal Child Lead Poison
Prevention Program (O 1459-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627-1628
Amend Section 561.02 and 561.03 of the Codified Ordinances — enacted by Ordinance No.
1328-82 passed September 20, 1982 supplement said ordinances by enacting new Section
210.03 — retitle Chapter 561 for Clean Hard Fill — relating to la (O 1739-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1622
Amend Sections 1 and 3 of Ordinance No. 440-97 — passed March 24, 1997 — relating to
1997 Federal Aids Prevention Program (O 1460-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627-1628
Lease space located at 3030 Euclid Avenue, from Hug-John Inc/Najm Square
(O 1293-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1626-1627

1644

September 17, 1997

The City Record

27

Land Reutilization Program
Eliott Avenue, 10813, East 121 St., 3345, East 130th St., 3263, East 140th St., 3278, East
117th St., 3386, East 125th St., 3415 — Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corporation
(O 1682-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Avenue, 8100-8106 and 8108 — Kelly Chapman (O 1681-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Road, 14700-10 — Evangelistic Temple of Faith Inc. (O 1683-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Linn Drive, 930, East 49th St., 3316, Vivian Ave., 4804, East 48th St., 3295, 3275, 3271,
East 49th St., 3272, East 53rd St., 3456, 3458, East 82nd St., 3546 and Pratt Avenue,
9407 — Cleveland Housing Network Ltd. Partnership XIV (O 1684-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Whittier Avenue, 5709 and 5713 — Bernard and Marsha Pettus (O 1680-97) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1640
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1639
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1641

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1641
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1639

Liquor Permits
Clark Ave., 1303 — objection — transfer of ownership (R 1676-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Ave., 6625 — Objecting — transfer of location (R 1674-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 5901 — withdrawing objection — transfer of ownership — repealing Res.
No. 2159-96 (R 1747-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st., 4025 — objecting — stock application (R 1675-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Payne Avenue, 3528 — withdrawing objection — transfer of ownership repealing Res. No.
917-97 (R 1748-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair, 700 — Objecting — transfer of ownership and location (R 1677-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sumner Court, 1012 — objecting — transfer of ownership — and repealing Res. No. 1102-97
(R 1679-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 6th St., 1276-80 — Objecting — transfer of ownership (R 1678-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1635
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1634
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1626
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1635
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1626
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1635
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1636
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1636

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Contract No. 51055 for renovations to City Hall — Envirocom Construction Inc.
(O 1738-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1622
Permits
Permit — 5K and 10K Walkathon — October 14, 1997 (O 1672-97). . . . . . . . . .
Permit — Cleveland Aids Walk — September 28, 1997 (O 1663-97). . . . . . . . . .
Permit — Footrace — September 1, 1997 (O 1670-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Permit — Footrace — September 7, 1997 (O 1667-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Permit — Race for the Cure — September 28, 1997 (O 1666-97) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Permit — Rockefeller Park Cultural Arts Association — August 29, 1997 to
1997 (O 1665-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Permit — St. Leo’s Great Church — August 15, 1997 to October 15, 1997 (O
Permit — Walk for Diabetes (Walkoberfest) — October 5, 1997 (O 1669-97)
Permit — Walk-A-Thon — September 20, 1997 (O 1671-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Permit — Walk-A-Thon/Pray-A-Thon — September 20, 1997 (O 1668-97) . . . . .

..............
..............
..............
..............
..............
September 16,
..............
1664-97) . . . . . .
..............
..............
..............

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1638
1636
1638
1637
1637

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1637
1637
1638
1638
1637

Personnel and Human Resources Department
Approving the collective bargaining agreement with City, County and Waste Paper Drivers
Union, Local 244 Seasonal Employees (O 1741-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1624
Recognitions
National Hispanic Heritage Month (R 1760-97) . . . . . .
Score, Herb (R 1761-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sergeant Williams, Calvin (R 1763-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sisters of St. Joseph of Cleveland 125th Anniversary

............
............
............
(R 1762-97) .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1622
1621
1622
1622

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Urging the Director of Public Safety and the Chief of Police — make changes
for high-speed police pursuits (R 1673-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1633
Safety Department
Accept grant — U.S. Department of Justice for 1997-98 Caribbean/Gang Task Force Program
(O 1294-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1626-1627
Bidding with Dictaphone Corporation for — purchase of Dictaphone equipment maintenance
(O 1295-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1626-1627
Urging the Director of Public Safety and the Chief of Police — make changes
for high-speed police pursuits (R 1673-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1633
Service Department
Accept grant — Ohio Public Works Commission for State Issue 2 for the Bridge and Road
G.O. Bonds (O 1298-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627-1628
Amend Section 2 of Resolution No. 483-95 passed June 5, 1995 — relating to the formation
of the Cleveland Theater District as a special improvement District (R 1746-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1625
Amend Section 561.02 and 561.03 of the Codified Ordinances — enacted by Ordinance No.
1328-82 passed September 20, 1982 supplement said ordinances by enacting new Section
210.03 — retitle Chapter 561 for Clean Hard Fill — relating to la (O 1739-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1622

1645

The City Record

28

Contract of Toro mower parts (O 1737-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Determining the method of making public improvement — rehabilitating East 89th Street
Bridge over N & S and RTA (O 1643-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mayor to apply to the District One Public Works Integrating Committee — state funding
of various infrastructure capital improvement projects (O 1450-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Michael Benza & Associates for professional services — design the public improvement of
rehabilitating East 55TH Street (O 1640-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

September 17, 1997
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1622
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1627
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1627

Statement of Work Acceptance
Contract No. 49803 for Moulton/Scoutway Park Phase II — Parks, Recreation and Properties
Department (F 1766-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1621
Utilities Department
Contract of anthracite filter media (O 1458-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1627-1628
Zoning
Change Use District of lands on the northwesterly side of Warner Road S.E. between
Maryland Avenue (O 1329-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use District of land between Auburn Avenue, S.W. and Barber Avenue S.W. — east
of W. 25th Street and west of Scranton Road (O 942-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use District of lands on the northwesterly side of Warner Road, S.E. from
Maryland Avenue (O 1331-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use and Area Districts of lands on the westerly side of West 26th between
Hancock Avenue (O 1223-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands on the east side of W. 96 Street, north
of Madison Avenue (O 1332-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . 1643
. . . . . . . 1643
. . . . . . . 1643
. . . . . . . 1643
. . . . . . . 1643

Zoning — Public Hearings — City Planning Committee
Change Use District of lands on the northwesterly side of Warner Road S.E. between
Maryland Avenue (O 1329-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use District of land between Auburn Avenue, S.W. and Barber Avenue S.W. — east
of W. 25th Street and west of Scranton Road (O 942-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use District of lands on the northwesterly side of Warner Road, S.E. from
Maryland Avenue (O 1331-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use and Area Districts of lands on the westerly side of West 26th between
Hancock Avenue (O 1223-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands on the east side of W. 96 Street, north
of Madison Avenue (O 1332-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1646

. . . . . . . 1643
. . . . . . . 1643
. . . . . . . 1643
. . . . . . . 1643
. . . . . . . 1643

September 17, 1997

The City Record

PPPP

29

