The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d

May the Twenty-First, Nineteen Hundred and Ninety-Seven

Mayor
Michael R. White
President of Council
Jay Westbrook
Clerk of Council
Artha Woods
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Charles L. Patton, Jr.
Robert J. White
Odelia V. Robinson
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
John C. Skrha
Helen K. Smith
Merle R. Gordon
Larry Moran
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Joseph J. Zone
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

RECYCLE...........................Save the Future
Printed on Recycled Paper.....Council Cares

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
62
67
69
69
71
73
73
73
74
87
87

FIRST-CLASS MAIL
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

First Class Mail

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Jay Westbrook
Name
Residence
Charles L. Patton, Jr......................................2986 Ripley Road
44120
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
44105
Odelia V. Robinson................................3448 East 123rd Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
44115
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
44120
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
44108
Craig E. Willis .........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
44105
John C. Skrha .......................................5100 Broadway Avenue
44127
Helen K. Smith...........................................3016 Carroll Avenue
44113
Merle R. Gordon.........................................1813 Tampa Avenue
44109
Larry Moran .............................................3584 West 46th Street
44102
Timothy J. Melena ........................6109 West Clinton Avenue
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
44102
Joseph J. Zone........................................3323 West 130th Street
44111
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
44111
Clerk of Council–Artha Woods, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk–Sandra Franklin.
MAYOR–Michael R. White
LaVonne Sheffield-McClain, Chief of Staff,Executive Assistant for Policy
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Judith Zimomra, Executive Assistant for Service
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Economic Development
Richard Werner, Executive Assistant for Governmental Affairs.
Susan E. Axelrod, Executive Assistant for Communications and Support
Services
Linda Willis, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Sharon Sobol Jordan, Director of Law, Room 106;
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian; Criminal Branch–Justice Center, 8th
Flr., Court Towers, 1200 Ontario
Carolyn Watts-Allen, Chief Asst. Prosecutor
Lessie M. Milton, Chief Counsel
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Martin L. Carmody, Director, Room 104; Carlean
Alford, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – A. Schneider, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Mary Christine Jackman,Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Martin L. Carmody, Acting Commissioner,
Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – William A. Moon, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – James D. Smith, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside
Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – Keith D. Schuster, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Hamid Manteghi, Acting Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – M. Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – Jim Majer, Acting Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – William F. Cunningham, Jr., Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - Stephen Sheehan, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport - Michael C. Barth, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Henry Guzmán, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Larry Hines, Commissioner,
5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineeri ng and Construc tion – J. Chri stophe r Nielson, Acting
Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Acting Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Kenneth Nobilio, Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH –Robert O. Staib, Director, Mural Building
1925 St. Clair Avenue.
DIVISIONS – Health – Joyce Atwell-Joyce, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Joseph W. Jasper, Jr., Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925
St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cooley Farms, 4041 North–
field Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – William M. Denihan, Director. Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police\ Rocco Pollutro, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300
||||Ontario Street
Fire – Robert M. Derrit, Acting Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Traffic Engineering & Parking – David Ritz, Commissioner, 2001 Payne Ave.
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Bruce Shade, Commissioner, 2001 Payne
Ave.
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Oliver B. Spellman,
|||Jr., Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVIS IONS – Co nve ntio n Ce nt er & Stadiu m – Jame s Gle nding ,
|||Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Vernon Robinson, Commissioner,
||||E. 49th & Harvard
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Parking Facilities – Michae l Cox, Acting Commissioner, Pu blic
||||Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties –Richard L. Silva, Acting Commissioner,
Public Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Acting Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – M. Fallon, Commissioner, Burke
Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT –Terri Hamilton, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Jack F. Krumhansl, Acting Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Terri Hamilton, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Lisa Thomas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Joseph Nolan,
Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren,

Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Rm. 122, Delores A. Lynch, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Gary L. Holland, Director;

Mayor Michael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilmen Michael Polensek and Edward Rybka, City
Council Representatives; Muqit Abdul Sabur, Louise Boddie, Charles E.
McBee, Larry C. Liou, John Gallo, Emmett Saunders, Mary Jan Buckshot,
Sr. Joaquina Carrion, Kathryn M. Hall, Hasan Muheisen, Barbara S.
Rosenthal, Henry Simon.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Freddie J. Fenderson,
President; Timothy J. Cosgrove, Vice President; Donna K. Nelson,

Secretary; Margaret Hopkins, Member, Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy
Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; __________________, Director; President of Council

Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman;

Members; Chris Carmody, Anna Chatman, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Anthony Costanzo, Sec’y.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room

516, J. F. Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, James Williams, Alternate Members
– D. Cox, P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S.
Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director, Sharon Sobol

Jordan; Pres. Finance Director, ____________________, Director Sec’y.
Council President Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Henry Guzmá n, Service Director;

Law Director, Sharon Sobol Jordan, Councilman Roosevelt Coats.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director, Sharon

Sobol Jordan, Utilities Director, Michael Konicek; President of Council, Jay
Westbrook.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Rev. Albert T. Rowan, Chairman; ____________, Vice Chairman, David
Bowen, Anthony J. Coyne, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney,
Councilman Edward W. Rybka.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Sharon Sobol Jordan, __________________,
Councilman Jay Westbrook.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Raymond Ossovicki,
Chairman; _____________, Anton J. Eichmuller, Samuel Montfort
J. Gilbert Steele, Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chrm.;
Earl S. Bumgarner, _______________, Jozef Valencik, Martin Gallagher,
Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary.
CLE VELA ND LANDMA RKS COMMISSION – Ro om 5 19 ,___ ___ __,
Director; R. Schanfarber, Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; Robert
Keiser, Secretary; Judge Lillian Burke, James Gibans, Hunter Morrison,
Kenneth Nobilio, Theodore Sande, Randall Shorr, Shirley Thompson,
Councilmen Craig E. Willis and Helen K. Smith.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Salvatore R. Calandra
13A
Judge Colleen C. Cooney
14A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
12B
Judge Kathleen A. Keough
12C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
14C
Judge Gerald F. Sweeney
13D
Judge Robert S. Triozzi
12A
Earle B. Turner–Clerk of Courts, John J. O’Toole–Court Administrator, Robert
C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer, Michelle
L. Paris–Chief Referee

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MAY 21, 1997

Vol. 84

No. 4354

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MAY 19, 1997
The City Record
Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.00 per month
Address all communications to

ARTHA WOODS
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1994-1997
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Johnson,
Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman;
Patton, Robinson, Skrha, Sweeney,
White.
9:30 A.M.—Public Health Committee: Robinson, Chairman; Zone, Vice
Chairman; Britt, Gordon, Jackson,
Melena, Skrha.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee: Coats, Chairman; White, Vice
Chairman; Britt, Johnson, Melena,
Moran, Smith, Sweeney, Westbrook.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Patmon, Chairman; Robinson, Vice
Chairman;Gordon,
Lewis,
Melena,
Moran, Polensek.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M.— Finance Committee:
Westbrook,
Chairman;
Polensek,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats, Johnson,
Lewis,
Patmon,
Robinson,
Rybka, Smith, Zone.
TUESDAY
10:00 A.M.—Community and Economic
Development
Committee:
Jackson,
Chairman;
Lewis,
Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Coats,
Gordon,
Melena, Patton, Smith, Willis.
1:30 P.M.— Legislation Committee:
Willis,
Chairman;
Melena,
Vice
Chairman; Dolan, Johnson, Rybka,
Sweeney, White.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Smith, Chairman;
Sweeney, Vice Chairman; Dolan,
Patmon, Skrha, White, Willis.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Polensek, Chairman; Willis,
Vice Chairman; Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Moran, Patmon, Patton, Zone.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.— Public Utilities Committee: Patton, Chairman; Polensek,
Vice Chairman; Coats, Dolan, Lewis,
Moran, Patmon, Skrha, Willis.
1:30 P.M.— City Planning Committee: Rybka, Chairman; Britt, Vice
Chairman; Jackson, Gordon, Skrha,
White, Zone.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio May 19, 1997.
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, the President, Jay
Westbrook in the chair.
Councilmen present: Britt, Coats,
Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Lewis, Melena, Moran, Patmon, Patton, Polensek, Robinson, Rybka,
Skhra, Smith, Sweeney, Westbrook,
White, Willis, Zone.
Also present were Chief of Staff
Sheffield-McClain
and
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Cunningham, Guzman, Staib, Denihan, Spellman,
Hamilton,
Nolan,
Warren,
Lynch, Holland, Willis, Morrison
and Acting Director Ciaccia.
Absent: Mayor White and Director
Konicek.
The opening prayer was dispensed
with. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Councilman
Sweeney, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 895-97.
From the Department of Port Control re: City Notification of “Set
Aside” Requisition #098836, Office
Furniture. Received.
File No. 896-97.
From the Department of Port Control re: City Notification of “Set
Aside” Requisition #098850, Computer
Software. Received.
File No. 897-97.
From the Division of Purchase &
Supplies re: Excess City Property Reference # 004-97. Received.
File No. 898-97.
From the Ohio Department of
Transportation re: Cuyahoga CountyCity of Cleveland Lee Road, Ordinance No. 904-93 Passed June 14,
1993 PID No. 5281. Received.
File No. 899-97.
From Cleveland Energy Resources
re: PUCONotice of Intent. Received.

703

File No. 900-97.
Outline of memorandum of understanding for proposed expansion of
Continental Airlines facilities at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport. Received.
FROM THE DEPARTMENT
OF LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 901-97.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 7701687 - Sam Khatib Inc.
dba Amy Beverage & Deli, 3133
Payne Avenue. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 902-97.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 0120962 - Alis Deli Inc. dba
Linda’s Deli, 10221 Union Avenue.
(Ward 3). Received.
File No. 903-97.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 7705275 - Sammor Inc., 1795
East 55th Street. (Ward 7). Received.
File No. 904-97.
Re: New Application - 5379240 - M.
H. Yachting Inc. FDEReg #964804
dba Moondance, 2065 Scranton Road.
(Ward 13). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 944-97. Brother Julius
Watson.
Res. No. 945-97. Steven John Belko.
Res. No. 946-97. Robert A. Novak.
CONGRATULATORY RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 947-97. John Piar.
Res. No. 948-97. Sean Gallagher.
Res. No. 949-97. William Sebring.
Res. No. 950-97. St. Vincent de Paul
Catholic Church.
Res.
No.
951-97.
Clarence
A.
Wilkins.
Res. No. 952-97. William R. Stewart.
Res. No. 953-97. Imam Clyde Rahman.
Res. No. 954-97. Joseph C. Mazzola.
Res. No. 955-97. Senator M. Morris
Jackson.
Res. No. 956-97. Gregory Kunz.
RESOLUTIONS OF RECOGNITION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 957-97. Christian Church
of God in Christ.
Res. No. 958-97. Greater Cleveland
Safe Kids Coalition.

The City Record

4
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 920-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request)^
An emergency ordinance providing for the isuance and sale of
bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $10,850,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve
the municipal street system and
related facilities and to pay capitalized
interest
and
all
expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the bonds; to authorize
agreements with respect to the
bonds; and to authorize the issuance
of notes in anticipation of such
bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Ten Million Eight Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($10,850,000) (the “Bonds”)
to finance the cost of certain permanent improvements described in
Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is seventeen
(17) years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Ten Million Eight Hundred
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($10,850,000)
for the purpose of providing funds
to improve the municipal street system and related facilities, including
streets, expressways, roadways, driveways and pedestrian walkways,
by acquiring, constructing, reconstructing,
opening,
extending,
widening, grading, draining, paving,
resurfacing, lighting and curbing,
installing gutters, sidewalks and
related
pedestrian
improvements,
constructing
and
improving
culverts, resetting and constructing
catch
basins
and
other
storm
drainage
facilities,
constructing,
reconstructing, replacing, renovating
and
rehabilitating
bridges,

acquiring any real estate and interests in real estate, including easements, necessary for such purpose,
and installing signs, signals, markings and other devices for traffic
control purposes, together with the
payment of all associated preliminary costs and costs of site clearance and all appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto, and to
pay capitalized interest and all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the Bonds,
including any financing costs within the meaning of Revised Code Section 133.01(K), and such other costs
of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with
the proceeds of securities as permitted by Revised Code Section
133.15(B) and as otherwise permitted by law; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated
“Bridges
and
Roadways
Improvement Bonds, Series 1997”.
The Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral
multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be
numbered as determined by the
Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
August 1, 1997, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 1997, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds and signed by the Director of Finance in accordance with
this Ordinance (the “Certificate of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate of nine percent
(9%) per year or at the rate or rates
per year specified in the Certificate
of Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed nine percent (9%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed nine percent (9%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on February
1 and August 1 of each year or on
the first day of each of two months
specified in the Certificate of Award
as the dates on which interest on
the Bonds shall be payable (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), beginning February 1, 1998 or on such
other Interest Payment Date specified in the Certificate of Award as
the first Interest Payment Date.
The
Bonds
shall
mature
on
August 1 in seventeen (17) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning August 1, 1998, or according to the schedule set forth in the
Certificate of Award, provided that
(i) each principal payment shall
occur on an Interest Payment Date
(hereinafter defined), (ii) the first
principal payment on the Bonds
shall be no earlier than January 1,
1998 and no later than August 1,
1999, (iii) the final maturity date of
the Bonds shall be no later than seventeen (17) years from the first

704

May 21, 1997
principal payment date, and (iv) the
principal amount thereof shall be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent
for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include
amounts
sufficient
to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate is
not timely furnished to the Escrow
Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) shall not be reduced. A
credit against
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory redemption obligation)
also shall be received by the City for
any Term Bonds which prior thereto
have been redeemed (other than
through the operation of the Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled by the Registrar, to
the extent not applied
theretofore as a credit against any
mandatory redemption obligation.

May 21, 1997
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest
Payment Date, on the dates and for
the prices specified in the Certificate of Award, or the Director of
Finance may determine that it is in
the best interests of the City for the
Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity. In the event
that the Bonds are callable, the earliest date for optional redemption
shall be no later than the tenth
anniversary of the first principal
payment date and the maximum
redemption price shall be no greater
than 102% of the principal amount
redeemed, plus accrued interest to
the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar. In
the event that notice of redemption
shall have been given by the Registrar to the registered owners as
hereinafter provided, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, funds
which, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus interest accrued to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be

The City Record
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited
in the mail as aforesaid, those Bonds
and portions thereof shall continue
to bear interest, until they are paid,
at the same rate as they would have
borne had they not been called for
redemption. All money held by the
Registrar for the redemption of particular Bonds shall be held in trust
for the account of the registered
owners thereof and shall be paid to
them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Bonds.

705

5
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
fifteenth day of the calendar month
next preceding that Interest Payment
Date
(the
Record
Date).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance,
so long as the Bonds are held by a
Depository in a book entry system
(as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), which are
not included in this Ordinance and
will not apply to the Bonds, the General Bond Ordinance is included as
a part of this Ordinance as fully as
if restated herein. Words and terms
not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as set forth
in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Code and the foregoing requirement that each Bond
bear the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the Registrar); provided that

6
the Escrow Agent shall also act as
paying agent for the Bonds so long
as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the Agreement) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
920-97-A.
The
Agreement
is
approved,
together
with
any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this ordinance and
not substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Agreement or amendments to the
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the Bond Register).
Subject to the provisions of Section
5, the person in whose name a Bond
is registered on the Bond Register
shall be regarded as the absolute
owner of that Bond for all purposes
of this ordinance. Payment of or on
account of the debt charges on any
Bond shall be made only to or upon
the order of that person; neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds

The City Record
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book

706

May 21, 1997
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to
Lehman Brothers, Merrill, Lynch &
Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co.,
Inc., and SBK-Brooks Investment
Corp. (collectively, the “Original
Purchaser”); provided, however, that
if, in the reasonable opinion of the
Director of Finance, an underwriter
is incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, final
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the
date of the Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 2) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. If it is determined advisable
by the Director of Finance for the
sale of the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign agreements with a municipal bond insurer issuing a policy of municipal
bond insurance for the Bonds that
are not materially inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Mayor, Director
of Finance, Director of Law and
other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, autho-

May 21, 1997
rized and directed to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the
City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript or proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Mayor and the Director
of Finance are, and each of them is,
hereby
further
authorized
and
directed to execute and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds,
provided that such agreement shall
not provide for or require the terms
of the Bonds to be inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement is approved substantially in the form now on the file with
the Clerk of Council in File No. 92097-A, together with any changes or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement. It is hereby determined
that the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may
be provided in or pursuant to the
Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an
Official Statement is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
original issuance of the Bonds, those
officers in their official capacities
are authorized to prepare or cause
to be prepared on behalf of the City
an Official Statement and any necessary supplements thereto, and on
behalf of the City to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, that Official Statement
and any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of
the Bonds, and each of those officers is authorized to sign on behalf
of the City and in his or her official
capacity, that Official Statement and
any supplements thereto approved
by such officer. Those officers are
and each of them is authorized to
sign and deliver, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of the Official Statement and any supplements thereto
as may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Such officers
are also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the

The City Record
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”).
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the Rule. The performance of
that Agreement shall be subject to
the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 1997”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied

707

7
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be

8
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities
and
interest
payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings
therefrom (likewise to be held in
trust and committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together with moneys referred
to in (i) above, for the payment, at
their maturities or redemption dates,
of all debt charges on the Bonds to
their date of maturity or redemption,
as the case may be, or if default in
such payment shall have occurred on
such date then to the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that
if any Bonds are to be redeemed
prior to the maturity thereof, notice
of such redemption shall have been
duly given or irrevocable provision
satisfactory to the Trustee shall
have been duly made for the giving
of such notice. Any moneys held by
the Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of
America maturing,
or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such determination as provided in Section 17(a)
of the General Bond Ordinance for
unclaimed funds held by a Paying
Agent. In the event of nonpresentment
of any Bond as described in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance,
the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held and paid as provided in said Section 17(a) for unclaimed
funds held by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Ten Million Eight Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($10,850,000) (the “Notes”)
upon the direction of the Director of
Finance to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of
the Notes and the sale of the Notes
and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”).

The City Record
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes: shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding nine per cent
(9%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated
“Bridges
and
Roadways
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 1997”; shall be issued
in such numbers and denominations
as may be requested by the Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered form (which may be in a book
entry only system) in denominations
of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof. Interest shall be payable semiannually on the dates set forth in
the Note Certificate of Award; provided that if the Notes mature on or
before the end of the twelfth (12th)
month
following
their
date
of
issuance, interest on the Notes shall
be payable at maturity.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
Registrar);
provided
that
the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Registrar
and the Escrow Agent (the Note
Registrar Agreement) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes. The Director of Finance shall
provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Note Registrar Agreement
from the proceeds of the Notes to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Registrar to maintain and keep at
its principal corporate trust office
all books and records necessary for
the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes as provided in this Section (the Note Register). Subject to
the provisions of Section 5, the person in whose name a Note is registered on the Note Register shall be
regarded as the absolute owner of
that Note for all purposes of this
ordinance. Payment of or on account
of the debt charges on any Note
shall be made only to or upon the
order of that person; neither the City
nor the Registrar shall be affected
by any notice to the contrary, but
the registration may be changed as
provided in this Section. All such
payments shall be valid and effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Note, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.

708

May 21, 1997
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Note may be transferred only on
the Note Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Note at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Note or Notes of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Note
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 1997”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale
to the Note Purchaser by the Director of Finance in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate
of Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section

May 21, 1997
10 hereof. The Notes shall be sold to
Lehman Brothers, Merrill, Lynch &
Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
SBK-Brooks Investment Corp., and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(the “Note Purchaser”). The proceeds of such sale shall be paid into
the proper fund and used for the
purpose for which the Notes are
being issued under the provisions of
this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment
of the Notes and Bonds and are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such direct tax upon all
of the taxable property in the City
may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the

The City Record
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section
18.
Federal
Tax
Covenants. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and (b) it
will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(c) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (i)
apply the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict
the yield on investment property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,

709

9
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this Ordinance were
passed in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 20. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make then legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 21. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 22. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding

10
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 23. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 24. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 921-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $11,750,000 for the purpose of providing funds for improving buildings and structures housing and providing for the discharge
of governmental functions and services otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and welfare and to
pay
capitalized
interest
an
all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the bonds; to
authorize agreements with respect
to the bonds; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Eleven
Million Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars
($11,750,000)
(the
“Bonds”) to finance the cost of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has cer-

The City Record
tified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Eleven Million Seven Hundred
Fifty
Thousand
Dollars
($11,750,000) for the purpose of providing funds for constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating, remodeling, renovating, protecting and otherwise
improving
buildings
and
structures housing and providing for
the discharge of governmental functions and services otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and
welfare, including facilities in, of
and for the City Hall, the Municipal
Court, fire stations, service centers,
waste transfer and disposal facilities, and correctional and health
facilities and the provision of the
necessary
furnishings,
equipment
and site improvements for the purpose, and to pay capitalized interest
and all expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the
Bonds,
including
any
financing
costs within the meaning of Revised
Code Section 133.01(K), and such
other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be
financed with the proceeds of securities as permitted by Revised Code
Section 133.15(B) and as otherwise
permitted by law; and to authorize
the issuance of notes in anticipation
of such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bonds, Series 1997”. The Bonds
shall be issued in one lot as fully
registered Bonds in denominations
of $5,000 or any integral multiple

710

May 21, 1997
thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
August 1, 1997, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 1997, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds and signed by the Director of Finance in accordance with
this Ordinance (the “Certificate of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate of nine percent
(9%) per year or at the rate or rates
per year specified in the Certificate
of Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed nine percent (9%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed nine percent (9%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on February
1 and August 1 of each year or on
the first day of each of two months
specified in the Certificate of Award
as the dates on which interest on
the Bonds shall be payable (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), beginning February 1, 1998 or on such
other Interest Payment Date specified in the Certificate of Award as
the first Interest Payment Date.
The
Bonds
shall
mature
on
August 1 in twenty (20) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning August 1, 1998, or according to the schedule set forth in the
Certificate of Award, provided that
(i) each principal payment shall
occur on an Interest Payment Date
(hereinafter defined), (ii) the first
principal payment on the Bonds
shall be no earlier than January 1,
1998 and no later than August 1,
1999, (iii) the final maturity date of
the Bonds shall be no later than
twenty (20) years from the first
principal payment date, and (iv) the
principal amount thereof shall be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100

May 21, 1997
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent
for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include
amounts
sufficient
to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date and
the maximum redemption price shall
be no greater than 102% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal

The City Record
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar. In
the event that notice of redemption
shall have been given by the Registrar to the registered owners as
hereinafter provided, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, funds
which, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus interest accrued to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thir-

711

11
ty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
fifteenth day of the calendar month
next preceding that Interest Payment
Date
(the
Record
Date).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance,
so long as the Bonds are held by a
Depository in a book entry system
(as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the
United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the

12
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), which are
not included in this Ordinance and
will not apply to the Bonds, the General Bond Ordinance is included as
a part of this Ordinance as fully as
if restated herein. Words and terms
not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as set forth
in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Code and the foregoing requirement that each Bond
bear the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the Registrar); provided that
the Escrow Agent shall also act as
paying agent for the Bonds so long
as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the Agreement) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
921-97-A.
The
Agreement
is
approved,
together
with
any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this ordinance and
not substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Agreement or amendments to the
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the Bond Register).

The City Record
Subject to the provisions of Section
5, the person in whose name a Bond
is registered on the Bond Register
shall be regarded as the absolute
owner of that Bond for all purposes
of this ordinance. Payment of or on
account of the debt charges on any
Bond shall be made only to or upon
the order of that person; neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds

712

May 21, 1997
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for

May 21, 1997
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to
Lehman Brothers, Merrill, Lynch &
Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co.,
Inc., and SBK-Brooks Investment
Corp. (collectively, the “Original
Purchaser”); provided, however, that
if, in the reasonable opinion of the
Director of Finance, an underwriter
is incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, final
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the
date of the Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 2) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. If it is determined advisable
by the Director of Finance for the
sale of the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign agreements with a municipal bond insurer issuing a policy of municipal
bond insurance for the Bonds that
are not materially inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Mayor, Director
of Finance, Director of Law and
other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, authorized and directed to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the
City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript or proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Mayor and the Director
of Finance are, and each of them is,
hereby
further
authorized
and
directed to execute and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds,

The City Record
provided that such agreement shall
not provide for or require the terms
of the Bonds to be inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement is approved substantially in the form now on the file with
the Clerk of Council in File No. 92197-A, together with any changes or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement. It is hereby determined
that the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may
be provided in or pursuant to the
Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an
Official Statement is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
original issuance of the Bonds, those
officers in their official capacities
are authorized to prepare or cause
to be prepared on behalf of the City
an Official Statement and any necessary supplements thereto, and on
behalf of the City to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, that Official Statement
and any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of
the Bonds, and each of those officers is authorized to sign on behalf
of the City and in his or her official
capacity, that Official Statement and
any supplements thereto approved
by such officer. Those officers are
and each of them is authorized to
sign and deliver, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of the Official Statement and any supplements thereto
as may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Such officers
are also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”).
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner,
as may be required for purposes of
the SEC Rule. In order to describe
and specify certain terms of the
City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose, and thereby
to
implement
that
agreement,
including provisions for enforcement, amendment and termination,
the Mayor and the Director of
Finance are authorized and directed to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a continuing disclosure agreement
or certificate, which shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Bonds in accordance with the
Rule. The
performance
of that
Agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it.

713

13
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 1997”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the

14
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemp-

The City Record
tion dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Eleven
Million Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars
($11,750,000)
(the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the
final terms of the Notes and the sale
of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes: shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding nine per cent
(9%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes,
Series 1997”; shall be issued in such
numbers and denominations as may
be requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form
(which may be in a book entry only
system) in denominations of $5,000
or integral multiples thereof. Interest shall be payable semi-annually

714

May 21, 1997
on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that
if the Notes mature on or before the
end of the twelfth (12th) month following their date of issuance, interest on the Notes shall be payable at
maturity.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
Registrar);
provided
that
the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Registrar
and the Escrow Agent (the Note
Registrar Agreement) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes. The Director of Finance shall
provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Note Registrar Agreement
from the proceeds of the Notes to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Notes as provided in
this Section (the Note Register).
Subject to the provisions of Section
5, the person in whose name a Note
is registered on the Note Register
shall be regarded as the absolute
owner of that Note for all purposes
of this ordinance. Payment of or on
account of the debt charges on any
Note shall be made only to or upon
the order of that person; neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Note,
including
interest,
to
the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Note may be transferred only on
the Note Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Note at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Note or Notes of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Note
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the

May 21, 1997
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 1997”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale to
the Note Purchaser by the Director of
Finance in the principal amount set
forth in a certificate of award to be
executed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”) at
not less than par and accrued interest and at a rate not exceeding that
set forth in Section 10 hereof. The
Notes shall be sold to Lehman Brothers, Merrill, Lynch & Co., J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc., SBK-Brooks Investment Corp., and Pryor, McClendon,
Counts & Co., Inc. (the “Note Purchaser”). The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.

The City Record
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment
of the Notes and Bonds and are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such direct tax upon all
of the taxable property in the City
may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section
18.
Federal
Tax
Covenants. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes

715

15
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and (b) it
will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(c) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (i)
apply the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict
the yield on investment property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income for
federal income tax purposes, and the
officers identified above are authorized to take actions with respect to
those issues as they are authorized
in this section to take with respect
to the Notes and the Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available
under Section 148 of the Code, for the
purpose of assuring, enhancing or
protecting favorable tax treatment or
status of the Notes and the Bonds or
interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense
of such compliance, reducing the
rebate amount or payments or penalties, or making payments of special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying, excess
earnings as rebate, or obviating
those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer, which action
shall be in writing and signed by the
officer, (b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.

16
Section 19. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this Ordinance were
passed in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 20. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make then legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 21. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 22. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 23. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any manner
as would, impair the obligation of
contract of the City with respect to
any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates
of
indebtedness,
other
obligations, trust indentures, trust
agreements, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by

The City Record
the City and for which consideration was duly received by the City
prior to the passage of this Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 24. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this
Ordinance
receives
the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
members elected to Council, it shall
take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall
take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 922-97.
By Councilmen Johnson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $3,250,000 for the purpose
of
providing
funds
to
improve
municipal park and recreation facilities and to pay capitalized interest
and all expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the
bonds; to authorize agreements with
respect to the bonds; and to authorize the issuance of notes in anticipation of such bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Three Million Two Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($3,250,000) (the “Bonds”) to
finance the cost of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,

716

May 21, 1997
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Three Million Two Hundred
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($3,250,000)
for the purpose of providing funds
to improve municipal park and
recreation facilities by constructing,
reconstructing,
rehabilitating,
remodeling, renovating, enlarging and
otherwise improving pools, park and
recreation centers and other buildings, structures and facilities, and
providing necessary drainage, lighting, signage, furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site
improvements, together with the
payment of all preliminary associated costs and all necessary and
incidental
appurtenances
in
all
cases, including the acquisition of
any required real estate and interests in real estate, and to pay capitalized interest and all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the Bonds, including all
financing costs within the meaning
of Section 133.01(K) of the Revised
Code and such other costs of the
foregoing permanent improvements
that may be financed with the proceeds of securities as permitted by
Section
133.15(B)
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code and as otherwise permitted by law; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Park and Recreation Facilities
Improvement
Bonds,
Series
1997”. The Bonds shall be issued in
one lot as fully registered Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
August 1, 1997, or such other date,
but in no event later than December
31, 1997, specified in the certificate
of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of
the Bonds and signed by the Director of Finance in accordance with
this Ordinance (the “Certificate of
Award”). The Bonds shall bear
interest at the rate of nine percent
(9%) per year or at the rate or rates
per year specified in the Certificate
of Award; provided that if all the
Bonds bear interest at the same rate
per year, then such rate shall not
exceed nine percent (9%) per year,
and if the Bonds bear interest at
more than one rate per year, then
the weighted average of such rates
(taking into account the principal
amount and maturity of each Bond
to which a rate applies) shall not
exceed nine percent (9%) per year.
Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable, until the principal amount
is paid, semi-annually on February
1 and August 1 of each year or on
the first day of each of two months
specified in the Certificate of Award
as the dates on which interest on
the Bonds shall be payable (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), beginning February 1, 1998 or on such
other Interest Payment Date specified in the Certificate of Award as
the first Interest Payment Date.

May 21, 1997
The
Bonds
shall
mature
on
August 1 in twenty (20) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning August 1, 1998, or according to the schedule set forth in the
Certificate of Award, provided that
(i) each principal payment shall
occur on an Interest Payment Date
(hereinafter defined), (ii) the first
principal payment on the Bonds
shall be no earlier than January 1,
1998 and no later than August 1,
1999, (iii) the final maturity date of
the Bonds shall be no later than
twenty (20) years from the first
principal payment date, and (iv) the
principal amount thereof shall be
payable in annual installments such
that the total principal and interest
payments on the Bonds in any fiscal year in which principal is
payable is not more than three times
the amount of those payments in
any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent
for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include
amounts
sufficient
to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory

The City Record
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date and
the maximum redemption price shall
be no greater than 102% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar. In
the event that notice of redemption
shall have been given by the Registrar to the registered owners as
hereinafter provided, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, funds
which, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus interest accrued to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one

717

17
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If

18
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
fifteenth day of the calendar month
next preceding that Interest Payment
Date
(the
Record
Date).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance,
so long as the Bonds are held by a
Depository in a book entry system
(as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), which are
not included in this Ordinance and
will not apply to the Bonds, the General Bond Ordinance is included as
a part of this Ordinance as fully as
if restated herein. Words and terms
not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as set forth
in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Code and the foregoing requirement that each Bond
bear the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting

The City Record
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the Registrar); provided that
the Escrow Agent shall also act as
paying agent for the Bonds so long
as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow
Agent (the Agreement) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
922-97-A.
The
Agreement
is
approved,
together
with
any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this ordinance and
not substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Agreement or amendments to the
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the Bond Register).
Subject to the provisions of Section
5, the person in whose name a Bond
is registered on the Bond Register
shall be regarded as the absolute
owner of that Bond for all purposes
of this ordinance. Payment of or on
account of the debt charges on any
Bond shall be made only to or upon
the order of that person; neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any

718

May 21, 1997
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of bene-

May 21, 1997
ficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to
Lehman Brothers, Merrill, Lynch &
Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co.,
Inc., and SBK-Brooks Investment
Corp. (collectively, the “Original
Purchaser”); provided, however, that
if, in the reasonable opinion of the
Director of Finance, an underwriter
is incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, final
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the

The City Record
date of the Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 2) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. If it is determined advisable
by the Director of Finance for the
sale of the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign agreements with a municipal bond insurer issuing a policy of municipal
bond insurance for the Bonds that
are not materially inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Mayor, Director
of Finance, Director of Law and
other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, authorized and directed to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the
City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and procedure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript or proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Mayor and the Director
of Finance are, and each of them is,
hereby
further
authorized
and
directed to execute and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds,
provided that such agreement shall
not provide for or require the terms
of the Bonds to be inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement is approved substantially in the form now on the file with
the Clerk of Council in File No. 92297-A, together with any changes or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement. It is hereby determined
that the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may
be provided in or pursuant to the
Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an
Official Statement is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
original issuance of the Bonds, those
officers in their official capacities
are authorized to prepare or cause
to be prepared on behalf of the City
an Official Statement and any necessary supplements thereto, and on
behalf of the City to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, that Official Statement
and any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of

719

19
the Bonds, and each of those officers is authorized to sign on behalf
of the City and in his or her official
capacity, that Official Statement and
any supplements thereto approved
by such officer. Those officers are
and each of them is authorized to
sign and deliver, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of the Official Statement and any supplements thereto
as may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Such officers
are also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”).
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the Rule. The performance of
that Agreement shall be subject to
the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 1997”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,

20
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.

The City Record
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the
holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section

720

May 21, 1997
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Three
Million Two Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars
($3,250,000)
(the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth
in a certificate providing for the
final terms of the Notes and the sale
of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes: shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding nine per cent
(9%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated “Park and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1997”; shall be
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined); and shall be issued in
fully registered form (which may be
in a book entry only system) in
denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semi-annually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth (12th) month following their
date of issuance, interest on the
Notes shall be payable at maturity.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
Registrar);
provided
that
the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Registrar
and the Escrow Agent (the Note
Registrar Agreement) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes. The Director of Finance shall
provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Note Registrar Agreement
from the proceeds of the Notes to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Notes as provided in
this Section (the Note Register).

May 21, 1997
Subject to the provisions of Section
5, the person in whose name a Note
is registered on the Note Register
shall be regarded as the absolute
owner of that Note for all purposes
of this ordinance. Payment of or on
account of the debt charges on any
Note shall be made only to or upon
the order of that person; neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Note,
including
interest,
to
the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Note may be transferred only on
the Note Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Note at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Note or Notes of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Note
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 1997”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided

The City Record
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale
to the Note Purchaser by the Director of Finance in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate
of Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The Notes shall be sold to
Lehman Brothers, Merrill, Lynch &
Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
SBK-Brooks Investment Corp., and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(the “Note Purchaser”). The proceeds of such sale shall be paid into
the proper fund and used for the
purpose for which the Notes are
being issued under the provisions of
this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment
of the Notes and Bonds and are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such direct tax upon all
of the taxable property in the City
may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance

721

21
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section
18.
Federal
Tax
Covenants. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and (b) it
will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(c) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (i)
apply the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict
the yield on investment property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are

22
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this Ordinance were
passed in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 20. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make then legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other

The City Record
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 21. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this
Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 22. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 23. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 24. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property, and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 923-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale by the
City of Cleveland, Ohio, of airport
revenue bonds for the purpose of
paying costs of improving the airport zystem, including refunding
outstanding revenue bonds issued

722

May 21, 1997
for that purpose, in an aggregate
principal amount not to exceed three
hundred twenty-five million dollars
($325,000,000) with respect to new
improvements, and an aggregate
principal amount not to exceed seventy-five
million
dollars
($75,000,000) with respect to refunding bonds; authorizing the execution
and delivery of a supplemental
indenture, bond purchase agreement,
official statement and other agreements related to those bonds; and
authorizing and approving related
matters.
Whereas, pursuant to the Constitution of the State of Ohio, the Charter of the City of Cleveland, Ohio,
and Ordinance No. 1773-A-76, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland, Ohio (the “Governing Body”)
on August 16, 1976 (the “Original
Bond Legislation”) and Resolution
No. 2389-76, adopted by the Governing Body on October 18, 1976, the
City
of
Cleveland,
Ohio
(the
“Issuer”) issued and sold its Airport
System Revenue Bonds, Series A,
dated November 1, 1976, in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$91,000,000 of which $8,455,000 principal amount was outstanding as of
May 1, 1997 (the “Original Revenue
Bonds”), for the purpose of paying
costs of improving the Airport System (as defined in the Original
Bond Legislation); and
Whereas, the Original Revenue
Bonds were issued and secured
under the terms of the Trust Indenture dated as of November 1, 1976,
including the Original Bond Legislation
incorporated
therein
(the
“Original Indenture”) between the
Issuer and Mellon Bank, F.S.B., as
successor to The Cleveland Trust
Company (the “Trustee”), and the
Original
Indenture
permits
the
Issuer to issue Additional Revenue
Bonds on a parity with the Original
Revenue Bonds for the purpose of
financing the cost of additional capital improvements to the Airport
System in the manner and subject to
the terms, conditions, and restrictions contained therein and in the
Bond proceedings authorizing the
Additional Revenue Bonds; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 234-90, passed by the Governing
Body on March 12, 1990 (the “Series
1990 Bond Legislation”) and Resolution No. 844-90, adopted by the Governing Body on April 12, 1990, the
Issuer issued and sold its Airport
System Revenue Bonds, Series 1990,
in the aggregate principal amount
of $66,006,243 of which $54,541,243
principal amount was outstanding
as of May 1, 1997 (the “Series 1990
Bonds”), for the purpose of paying
costs of improving and enlarging
the Airport System and for the purpose of advance refunding a portion
of the then outstanding Original
Revenue Bonds; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 929-94 passed by the Governing
Body on June 13, 1994 (the “Series
1994 Bond Legislation”) and the Certificate of Award dated August 11,
1994, the Issuer issued and sold its
Airport System Improvement Revenue Bonds, Series 1994, in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$94,495,000 of which $91,590,000 principal amount was outstanding as of
May
1,
1997
(the
“Series
1994
Bonds”), for the purpose of paying
costs of improving and enlarging
the Airport System; and
Whereas, in connection with the
issuance of the Series 1990 Bonds
and the Series 1994 Bonds, the
Issuer and the Trustee entered into

May 21, 1997
the First Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1990 including the Series 1990 Bond Legislation
incorporated therein (the “First Supplemental Indenture”) and the Second Supplemental Trust Indenture
dated as of August 1, 1994 including
the Series 1994 Bond Legislation
incorporated therein (the “Second
Supplemental
Indenture”),
each
amending and supplementing the
Original Indenture; and
Whereas, the Governing Body has
determined that it is necessary for the
Issuer to make additional improvements to the Airport System to cause
that System to continue to provide
adequate air travel facilities and that
it may be advantageous for the Issuer
to advance refund certain of the outstanding Revenue Bonds; and
Whereas, the Governing Body has
further determined that it is necessary for the Issuer to issue and sell
Series 1997 Bonds on the terms and
subject to the conditions set forth
herein, to finance the costs of making those improvements and, if it is
advantageous to do so, advance
refunding certain outstanding Revenue Bonds, making deposits to certain
Special
Funds
established
under the Original Indenture, as
amended and supplemented, and
paying the costs of issuing the
Series 1997 Bonds; and
Whereas, those improvements to
the Airport System will provide needed facilities for the provision of air
services to the public, and the prompt
commencement of the acquisition,
construction, and equipping of the
improvements requires the issuance
of the Series 1997 Bonds and the
undertaking of the transactions contemplated herein and, as a result, this
ordinance constitutes an emergency
measure providing for the immediate
preservation of the public property,
health, and safety and for the usual
and daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions.
In addition to the words and
terms defined in the Original Indenture, as amended and supplemented
by the First Supplemental Indenture
and Second Supplemental Indenture,
and as to be further amended and
supplemented by the Third Supplemental
Indenture,
the
following
words and terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context
or use indicates a contrary meaning
or intention.
“Bond Purchase Agreement” shall
mean, with respect to the Series 1997
Bonds, the Bond Purchase Agreement between the Issuer and the
Original Purchasers approved pursuant to Section 9 hereof.
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” shall mean a form or system, as applicable, under which (a)
the ownership of beneficial interests
in Revenue Bonds and Bond service
charges may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (b) physical Revenue Bond certificates in
fully registered form are registered
only in the name of a Depository or
its nominee as registered owner,
with the physical Bond certificates
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry system
is maintained by and is the responsibility of the Depository and not
the Issuer or the Trustee. The book
entry is the record that identifies,
and records the transfer of the interest of, the owners of beneficial
(book entry) interests in the Revenue Bonds.

The City Record
“Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
including, when appropriate, the
statutory predecessor of the Code
and all applicable Treasury regulations.
“Depository” shall mean any securities depository that is a clearing
agency under federal law operating
and maintaining, with its participants or otherwise, a book entry
system to record beneficial ownership of Revenue Bonds or Bond service charges, and to effect transfers
of Revenue Bonds, in book entry
form, and includes and means initially The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New York, New York.
“Earliest
Optional
Redemption
Date” shall mean, with respect to
the Series 1997 Bonds, the date or
dates, if any, specified as such in
the Series 1997 Certificate of Award,
provided that any such date shall be
a principal retirement date and shall
be not later than December 1, 2007.
“Financial Advisor” shall mean,
with respect to the Series 1997
Bonds, Carmona, Motley & Co., Inc.
“Indenture” means the Original
Indenture as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental
Indenture and Second Supplemental
Indenture, as further amended and
supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, and as the same
may be further amended and supplemented in accordance with its
terms.
“Interest Payment Dates” shall
mean, with respect to the Series 1997
Bonds, the dates specified as such
in the Series 1997 Certificate of
Award, provided that the first such
date shall be no later than the one
year after the date of the Series 1997
Bonds.
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”
shall mean, with respect to the
Series 1997 Bonds, the dates, if any,
specified in the Series 1997 Certificate of Award, as dates on which
Series 1997 Bonds are to be required
to be redeemed with moneys deposited in the Bond Service Fund for the
payment of mandatory sinking fund
requirements, if any, for the Series
1997 Bonds specified in the Series
1997 Certificate of Award.
“Original Purchasers” shall mean,
with respect to the Series 1997
Bonds, the person or persons identified as such in Section 9 hereof.
“Principal Payment Dates” shall
mean, with respect to the Series 1997
Bonds, the Principal Retirement
Dates, the Term Maturity Dates, and
the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
“Principal Retirement Dates” shall
mean, with respect to the Series 1997
Bonds, the dates specified in the
Series 1997 Certificate of Award as
dates on which Series 1997 Serial
Bonds are to be retired in accordance with their stated terms, provided that no such Principal Retirement Date shall be later than the
thirtieth anniversary of the date of
the Series 1997 Bonds.
“Principal Retirement Schedule”
shall mean, with respect to the
Series 1997 Bonds, the schedule of
the principal amount of the Series
1997 Bonds to be retired at their
stated maturities or redeemed pursuant to mandatory redemption on
each Principal Payment Date as
specified in the Series 1997 Certificate of Award, provided that the
Principal Retirement Schedule shall
be consistent with the required projected ratios between Airport Revenues and Bond service charges set
forth in paragraph (b) of Section

723

23
2.10 of the Original Indenture, as
amended by Section 3.02(b) of the
First Supplemental Indenture.
“Purchase Price” shall mean, with
respect to the Series 1997 Bonds, the
amount specified as such in the
Series 1997 Certificate of Award,
provided that the amount thereof
(excluding any portion thereof representing accrued interest on the
Series 1997 Bonds from their date to
the date of the delivery thereof and
payment therefor) shall be not less
than ninety-seven percent (97%) of
the aggregate of the products from
multiplying the principal amount of
each Series 1997 Bond times the percentage of such principal amount at
which such Series 1997 Bond is to be
initially offered to the public, and
provided further that the Purchase
Price may be a lesser amount if and
to the extent necessary for the Original Purchasers to be reimbursed for
the any premiums or other expenses paid by the Original Purchasers
in obtaining municipal bond insurance for the Series 1997 Bonds.
“Redemption Prices” shall mean,
with respect to any Series 1997
Bonds to be subject to redemption at
the option of the Issuer, the redemption prices, expressed as percentages of the principal amount of
Series 1997 Bonds so redeemed, at
which the Issuer may elect to
redeem Series 1997 Bonds in accordance with Section 5(e) hereof, as
specified in the Series 1997 Certificate of Award, provided that no
such redemption price shall exceed
103% of the principal amount of the
Series 1997 Bonds to be redeemed.
“Series 1997 Bond Legislation”
shall mean this Ordinance.
“Series 1997 Bond Proceedings”
shall mean the Series 1997 Bond
Legislation and the Series 1997 Certificate of Award.
“Series 1997 Bonds” shall mean the
Airport
System
Revenue
Bonds,
Series 1997, authorized to be issued
pursuant to Section 2 hereof, which
constitute
Additional
Revenue
Bonds and Revenue Bonds under the
Original Indenture.
“Series 1997 Capitalized Interest
Payment” shall mean, with respect
to the Series 1997 Bonds, an amount,
if any, specified as such in the
Series 1997 Certificate of Award,
representing an amount of proceeds
derived from the sale of the Series
1997 Project Bonds equal to the
interest accrued and to accrue on
the Series 1997 Project Bonds from
their date to a date specified in the
Series 1997 Certificate of Award,
which amount shall constitute a
Capitalized Interest Payment as
defined in the Original Indenture.
“Series 1997 Certificate of Award”
shall mean the Certificate of Award
authorized pursuant to Section 3
hereof.
“Series 1997 Project” shall mean
the improvements to the Airport System described in the Third Supplemental Indenture, including without
limitation: (i) the acquisition, construction, installation and/or equipping of terminal, airfield, parking
and roadway, hangar and other
improvements at or related to Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
including a new runway and extension of an existing runway, wastewater treatment facilities related to
runway and airfield operations, master planning, land acquisition, a
noise remediation program (including noise monitoring systems and
sound insulation), ramps (including
both new ramps and the rehabilitation of existing ramps), water, gas

24
and electric utilities to serve the airfield and the terminal, passenger
security and control systems for the
terminal,
telecommunications
improvements,
parking
facilities
and roadway improvements, facilities for rental car operations serving the airport, a new concourse,
public walkways connecting the
new concourse to the terminal, jetways, terminal lighting and sprinkler systems, asbestos abatement,
buildings or other structures to
house equipment, and fuel storage
tanks, parking and tank drainage
facilities for fuel trucks and other
fuel facilities; and (ii) the acquisition,
construction,
installation
and/or equipping of terminal and
airfield
improvements
at
Burke
Lakefront Airport, including master
planning, navigational aids, heating, ventilating and air conditioning
equipment, sewerage system facilities and runway rehabilitation; and
(iii) in each case as to each
improvement, the acquisition of any
interests in real property necessary
therefor, related design, planning,
environmental studies, environmental remediation and regulatory compliance costs, site preparation, construction management services, and
appurtenant improvements; and (iv)
such additional or different improvements to the Airport System as the
Director of Port Control deems necessary, provided that all conditions
for the inclusion of the cost of any
such other or different improvement
in the calculation of Landing Fees
or Rentals under Section 8.07 of the
Use Agreements shall have been
met.
“Series 1997 Serial Bonds” shall
mean those Series 1997 Bonds, if
any, which are designated as Serial
Bonds in the Series 1997 Certificate
of Award.
“Series 1997 Term Bonds” shall
mean those Series 1997 Bonds, if
any, which are designated as Term
Bonds in the Series 1997 Certificate
of Award.
“Specified Interest Rates” shall
mean, with respect to any Series
1997 Bonds that are not Series 1997
Variable Rate Bonds, the rate or
rates at which the Series 1997 Bonds
bear interest, expressed as a percentage of the principal amount
thereof per annum, as specified in
the Series 1997 Certificate of Award,
provided that the weighted average
of such rates, taking into account
the principal amount and maturity
of each Series 1997 Bonds to which
a rate pertains, shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) per annum.
“Series 1997 Variable Rate Bonds”
shall mean any Series 1997 Bonds to
be issued as Variable Rate Bonds
pursuant to Section 3.02(c) of the
First Supplemental Indenture, Section 3 of the Series 1997 Bond Legislation, and the Series 1997 Certificate of Award.
“Term
Maturity
Dates”
shall
mean, with respect to the Series
1997 Bonds, the dates specified in
the
Series
1997
Certificate
of
Award as dates on which Series
1997 Term Bonds are to be retired
at their stated maturities, provided
that no such Term Maturity Date
shall be later than the thirtieth
anniversary of the date of the
Series 1997 Bonds.
“Third Supplemental Indenture”
shall mean the Third Supplemental
Trust Indenture, dated as of the
same date as the Series 1997 Bonds,
between the Issuer and the Trustee,
including the Series 1997 Bond Proceedings.

The City Record
Section 2. Authorization of the
Series 1997 Bonds.
The Series 1997 Bonds shall be
issued for the purpose of paying
costs of improving the Airport System, including (i) costs of or related to the Series 1997 Project, including, without limitation, the Series
1997 Capitalized Interest Payment,
if any (such Series 1997 Bonds are
referred to as “Series 1997 Project
Bonds”), and (ii) refunding any outstanding Revenue Bonds that the
Fiscal Officer determines, based on
the advice of the Issuer’s Financial
Advisor, would be advantageous to
the Issuer due to savings in Bond
service charges or restructuring of
the currently scheduled Bond service charges or otherwise to better
serve the interests of the Issuer
(such Series 1997 Bonds are referred
to
as
“Series
1997
Refunding
Bonds”). In each case there shall be
included in the costs funded the
costs of issuance of the Series 1997
Bonds and any required deposits to
Special Funds attributable to the
Series 1997 Bonds. The Series 1997
Bonds shall be issued in an aggregate principal amount to be determined in the Series 1997 Certificate
of Award, subject to the limitations
set forth in Section 3 hereof, and
shall constitute Revenue Bonds for
all purposes of the Indenture.
The Governing Body finds and
determines that the issuance of the
Series 1997 Bonds serves proper,
public, municipal purposes by providing air travel facilities needed by
the people of the City of Cleveland.
The
Series
1997
Project
also
advances the economic welfare of
the City by increasing and promoting commerce by providing necessary transportation for individuals
and
commercial
enterprises
purchasing and selling services and
products in northeastern Ohio, and
the Series 1997 Project thereby creates and preserves jobs and employment opportunities in the City and
improves the economic welfare of
the City.
Section 3. Award and Sale of the
Series 1997 Bonds.
The
Fiscal
Officer
is
hereby
authorized and directed promptly to
negotiate the sale of the Series 1997
Bonds to the Original Purchasers
designated in Section 9 hereof on
terms consistent with this Series
1997 Bond Legislation. The Fiscal
Officer is hereby further authorized
and directed to execute and deliver
the Series 1997 Certificate of Award,
which shall: state whether any
Series 1997 Bonds shall be issued to
refund any outstanding Revenue
Bonds;
determine
whether
any
Series 1997 Bonds shall be issued as
Variable Rate Series 1997 Bonds
and, if so, make the other determinations with respect to the Series
1997 Variable Rate Bonds required
by this Section 3 for Series 1997
Variable Rate Bonds; and determine
whether a book entry system shall
be used for the Series 1997 Bonds.
The Series 1997 Certificate of Award
shall also specify and designate the
other details of the Series 1997
Bonds required or permitted to be
specified and designated therein in
accordance with and subject to the
limitations set forth in this Series
1997 Bond Legislation, including,
without limitation, the following:
(a)
the
aggregate
principal
amount of the Series 1997 Bonds;
provided that such amount shall not
exceed Three Hundred Twenty-Five
Million Dollars ($325,000,000) in the
case of the Series 1997 Project

724

May 21, 1997
Bonds, and shall not exceed Seventy-Five Million Dollars ($75,000,000)
in the case of any Series 1997
Refunding Bonds, except if any
Series 1997 Bonds are to be initially
offered to the public at an original
issue discount, then the maximum
aggregate principal amount of the
Series 1997 Bonds that may be
issued shall be increased over those
amounts by an amount equal to the
sum of the products from multiplying the original issue discount at
which each Series 1997 Bond to be
sold with an original issue discount
is to be initially offered to the public by the principal amount of the
Series 1997 Bond to be so offered;
(b) the date or dates of the Series
1997 Bonds;
(c) the Purchase Price;
(d) the Earliest Optional Redemption Date;
(e) the Redemption Prices;
(f)
the
Principal
Retirement
Dates;
(g) the Term Maturity Dates;
(h) the Mandatory Redemption
Dates;
(i)
the
Principal
Retirement
Schedule, including the amount of
any
mandatory
sinking
fund
requirement to be paid on any
Mandatory Redemption Date;
(j) the Specified Interest Rates
for any Series 1997 Bonds that are
not Series 1997 Variable Rate Bonds;
(k) the Capitalized Interest Payment, if any, including any interest
accrued on the Series 1997 Bonds
from their date to the date of the
delivery thereof and payment therefor;
(l) the Renewal and Replacement
Payment attributable to the Series
1997 Bonds;
(m) the amount of proceeds of the
sale of the Series 1997 Bonds to be
deposited
in
the
Bond
Service
Reserve Fund in order to cause the
balance
therein
to
equal
the
Required Bond Service Reserve, if
and to the extent required by the
Third Supplemental Indenture, and
any determination of the Fiscal
Officer under Section 4 of this
Agreement as to whether there shall
be an alternative special reserve
fund for the Series 1997 Bonds of
any series, separate from the Bond
Service Reserve Fund, or a municipal bond insurance policy, bank letter or line of credit, or other form
of credit or liquidity facility enhancing the security for Series 1997
Bonds of that series in lieu of a
funded reserve fund;
(n) the Paying Agent; and
(o) the determination of the Fiscal Officer pursuant to Section 9 of
this Series 1997 Bond Legislation as
to whether any Series 1997 Bonds of
any series are to be secured by or
payable from a municipal bond
insurance policy, bank letter or line
of credit, or other form of credit or
liquidity facility.
The Series 1997 Certificate of
Award may also specify that the
Series 1997 Bonds may be issued in
one or more separate series, each
bearing a distinctive designation,
provided that the Series 1997 Bonds
of all such series satisfy the requirements of the Indenture and of this
Series 1997 Bond Legislation as
though all such Bonds were of the
same, single series. Separate series
of Series 1997 Bonds may be issued
at the same or different times, and
if separate series of Series 1997
Bonds are issued at different times,
a separate Series 1997 Certificate of
Award may be executed for each
series. If the Series 1997 Bonds

May 21, 1997
include both Series 1997 Project
Bonds and Series 1997 Refunding
Bonds but are not identified as such
through different series designations, then the limitations set forth
in (a) above shall be applied to the
Series 1997 Bonds allocated between
those purposes.
In the event that the Fiscal Officer determines, based on the advice
of the Issuer’s Financial Advisor,
that the Issuer’s best interests will
be served by causing all or a portion
of the Series 1997 Bonds to be Series
1997 Variable Rate Bonds, then the
Fiscal Officer is authorized to cause
such Series 1997 Bonds to be Series
1997 Variable Rate Bonds by so specifying in the Series 1997 Certificate
of Award. If the Fiscal Officer so
determines, then, in accordance with
Section 3.02(c) of the First Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture shall specify the
method and procedure by which the
rate of interest to be borne by the
Series 1997 Variable Rate Bonds
shall be determined, provided that
the Series 1997 Variable Rate Bonds
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess of twelve percent (12%). That
maximum interest rate shall not
apply to Series 1997 Variable Rate
Bonds during any period those Bonds
are held by the Credit Provider as
pledged bonds because they could
not be remarketed. The Third Supplemental Indenture may also provide for the right of the holders of
Series 1997 Variable Rate Bonds to
tender their Series 1997 Variable
Rate Bonds for purchase by the
Issuer at the times, on the terms, and
subject to the conditions set forth
therein, provided that such tender
rights shall be exercisable only at
such times as a credit or liquidity
facility is in place that provides for
the payment of the purchase price
payable to the tendering holder of a
Series 1997 Variable Rate Bond. If
the Fiscal Officer designates any
Series 1997 Bonds as Series 1997 Variable Rate Bonds, then the Fiscal
Officer shall also designate in the
Certificate of Award the Credit
Provider or Credit Providers for any
credit or liquidity facility or facilities to apply to the Series 1997 Variable Rate Bonds, and the remarketing agent or agents for tendered
Series 1997 Variable Rate Bonds (if
the holders of the Series 1997 Variable Rate Bonds are to be entitled to
tender the Series 1997 Variable Rate
Bonds for purchase), which designations shall be based on the advice of
the Issuer’s Financial Advisor that
the parties so designated possess the
requisite resources and experience to
provide the services required of them
and that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide such services are fair and commercially reasonable.
It is hereby determined that the
Purchase Price, the Specified Interest Rates, and the other terms and
details of the Series 1997 Bonds as
so specified and determined in the
Series 1997 Certificate of Award
within the limitations set forth in
this Series 1997 Bond Legislation
will be in the best interest of the
Issuer and consistent with all legal
requirements.
Section 4. Application of Proceeds
of Series 1997 Bonds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 1997 Bonds shall be deposited
as follows:
(i) to the Bond Service Fund, that
portion, if any, of such proceeds constituting the Capitalized Interest
Payment;

The City Record
(ii) to the Bond Service Reserve
Fund, that portion of such proceeds
required to be deposited in the Bond
Service Reserve Fund in order to
cause the balance therein to equal
the Required Bond Service Reserve,
subject to the provisions set forth
below for a lesser or alternative
deposit;
(iii) to the Renewal and Replacement Fund, the portion of such proceeds representing the Renewal and
Replacement Payment attributable
to the Series 1997 Bonds;
(iv) if Series 1997 Bonds are
issued for the purpose of refunding
outstanding Revenue Bonds, then to
a separate account established in
the Bond Service Fund for that purpose pursuant to Part First of Section 5.03 of the Original Indenture,
the
portion
of
such
proceeds
required to be deposited in that
account to cause the refunded Revenue Bonds to be deemed paid and
discharged
for
purposes
of
the
Indenture; and
(v) to the Construction Fund, the
balance of such proceeds.
Pursuant to Section 3.02(h) of the
First Supplemental Indenture, the
Third Supplemental Indenture may
provide that no deposit to the Bond
Service Reserve Fund shall be made
for or with respect to the Series 1997
Bonds of any series, in which case:
(i) the holders of Series 1997 Bonds
of that series shall have no right or
entitlement to have any portion of
the Bond service charges on Series
1997 Bonds of that series be paid
from amounts in the Bond Service
Reserve Fund, (ii) the lien of and
pledge on the Bond Service Reserve
Fund shall not extend to or be for
the benefit of the holders of Series
1997 Bonds of that series, and (iii)
the Bond service charges on Series
1997 Bonds of that series shall not
be taken into account in determining
the
Required
Bond
Service
Reserve. The Third Supplemental
Indenture alternatively may provide
for the creation of a special reserve
fund solely for Series 1997 Bonds of
any series, separate from the Bond
Service Reserve Fund, and for the
deposit therein of such amount as
may be specified in the Third Supplemental Indenture as the required
reserve for Series 1997 Bonds of that
series or may require the Issuer to
provide a municipal bond insurance
policy, a bank letter or line of credit, or any other form of credit or liquidity facility to enhance the security for Series 1997 Bonds of that
series in lieu of a funded reserve
fund. If the Third Supplemental
Indenture provides for a special
reserve
fund
and
requires
that
deposits be made thereto from Airport Revenues at any time, then
such deposits may be made only
from moneys remaining in the Operating and Maintenance Fund on the
last day of a month before any
deposit is made to the General
Obligation Debt Service Fund (or
the Subordinated Debt Service Fund,
if it shall have been established) or
into any other Special Fund into
which such moneys may be deposited after any required deposits to the
General Obligation Debt Service
Fund. If the Third Supplemental
Indenture provides for no reserve
fund or for a special reserve fund,
then the Third Supplemental Indenture shall also provide that the
amount of any defaulted principal of
or interest on the Series 1997 Bonds
of the applicable series that would
have been timely paid had the
Required Bond Service Reserve for

725

25
such Series 1997 Bonds of that series
been fully funded in the Bond Service Reserve Fund shall be paid
only from moneys remaining in the
Operating and Maintenance Fund on
the last day of a month before any
deposit is made to the General
Obligation Debt Service Fund (or
the
Subordinated
Debt
Service
Reserve Fund, if it shall have been
established) or to any other Special
Funds into which such moneys may
be deposited after any required
deposits to the General Obligation
Debt Service Fund. The Fiscal Officer is authorized to determine, based
on the advice of the Issuer’s Financial Advisor, which of the options
permitted under this Section 4 for
funding the Bond Service Reserve
Fund or for alternatives to doing so
best serves the Issuer’s interests,
and shall specify that option in the
Series 1997 Certificate of Award.
Section 5. Terms and Provisions
Applicable to the Series 1997 Bonds.
(a) Form; exchange and transfer.
Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in the Original Indenture,
(i) all Series 1997 Bonds shall initially be issued in fully registered
form, and (ii) no Series 1997 Bond
shall be exchanged for or transferable into a coupon Revenue Bond or
Bonds unless and until the Indenture shall have been amended in
accordance with the terms thereof to
permit such exchanges or transfers.
To the extent that the Original
Indenture (particularly, but without
limitation, Section 2.05 thereof) permits fully registered Revenue Bonds
to be exchanged for or transferred
into coupon Revenue Bonds or Revenue Bonds payable to bearer, then
the Original Indenture is hereby
amended to prohibit such exchanges
or transfers for the Series 1997
Bonds unless and until the Indenture shall have been amended in
accordance with the terms thereof to
permit such exchanges or transfers.
The Series 1997 Bonds shall be
issued to a Depository for use in a
book entry system and, if and as
long as a book entry system is utilized: (i) the Series 1997 Bonds shall
be issued in the form of a single
registered Series 1997 Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Series 1997
Bonds in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership
of beneficial interests in book entry
form shall be shown by book entry
on the system maintained and operated by the Depository and its participants, and transfers of the ownership of beneficial interests shall
be made only by book entry by the
Depository and its participants; and
(iv) the Bonds as such shall not be
transferable
or
exchangeable,
except
for
transfer
to
another
Depository or to another nominee of
a Depository, without further action
by the Issuer.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Series 1997 Bonds for use in
a book entry system, the Fiscal Officer and Trustee may attempt to
establish
a
securities
depository/book entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Fiscal Officer and Trustee do
not or are unable to do so, the Director of Finance and Trustee, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then

26
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit withdrawal of the Series 1997
Bonds from the Depository, and
authenticate and deliver registered
Series 1997 Bond certificates to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of Issuer
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Executive Officer, the Fiscal
Officer, the Director of Port Control
or any one of them are authorized
and directed to the extent necessary
or required to enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with the book entry system
for the Series 1997 Bonds, after
determining (as evidenced by their
signing) that the signing thereof
will not endanger the funds or securities of the Issuer under the Indenture.
(b) Denominations and Dates. The
Series 1997 Bonds shall each be in
the denomination of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof and shall
be dated as of the date or dates
specified in or pursuant to the
Series 1997 Certificate of Award;
provided, however, that so long as a
book entry system is to be used for
the Series 1997 Bonds, then the
Series 1997 Bonds shall be issued in
the form of a single Series 1997
Bond for each maturity. Each Series
1997 Bond shall have only one principal maturity date, except for interim certificates or receipts issued
pending preparation of definitive
Series 1997 Bonds.
(c) Interest and Place of Payment. The Series 1997 Bonds shall
bear interest at their respective
Specified Interest Rates from the
most recent date to which interest
has been paid or duly provided for
or, if no interest has been paid or
duly provided for, from their date.
The principal and Redemption Price,
if any, of and the interest payable
on each Series 1997 Bond shall be
payable at the times, to the persons
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture, including, without limitation, provisions thereof permitting
special arrangements for payment to
the Depository.
(d) Maturities. The Series 1997
Serial Bonds shall mature on the
Principal Retirement Dates, and the
Series 1997 Term Bonds shall mature
on the Term Maturity Dates, as
specified in the Series 1997 Certificate of Award.
(e)
Optional
and
Mandatory
Redemption. The Series 1997 Bonds
maturing by their stated terms after
the Earliest Optional Redemption
Date shall be subject to redemption
at the option of the Issuer on or
after the earliest Optional Redemption Date in whole on any date or
in part on any Interest Payment
Date at the Redemption Price specified in the Series 1997 Certificate of
Award and in accordance with the
Indenture; provided, however, that
the Series 1997 Certificate of Award
may specify that all or a portion of
the Series 1997 Bonds will not be
subject to redemption at the option
of the Issuer. The Series 1997 Term
Bonds shall also be subject to
mandatory
redemption
prior
to
maturity at the Redemption Price on
each Mandatory Redemption Date in
the aggregate amount of the mandatory sinking fund requirement to be
paid on such Mandatory Redemption
date, all as specified in the Series
1997 Certificate of Award and in
accordance with the Indenture.

The City Record
(f) Execution. The Series 1997
Bonds shall be executed by the
Executive Officer and the Fiscal
Officer, and approved as to form by
the Legal Officer, provided that any
or all of such signatures may be facsimiles, and shall bear the corporate
seal of the Issuer or a facsimile
thereof.
(g) Numbering. The Series 1997
Bonds to be authenticated by the
Trustee shall be numbered and otherwise identified as specified by the
Fiscal Officer in accordance with
the Indenture.
Section 6. Refunding of Outstanding Revenue Bonds.
If Series 1997 Bonds are issued for
the purpose of refunding any outstanding Revenue Bonds, then the
Executive Officer, the Fiscal Officer
and the Director of Port Control or
any two of them are authorized and
directed to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the Issuer,
an escrow agreement between the
Issuer and the Trustee, as escrow
trustee, providing for the investment
and holding in escrow of the proceeds of the Series 1997 Refunding
Bonds to be applied to the refunding of such Revenue Bonds and for
the
application
of
the
moneys
derived from those investments to
the payment of the Bond Service
Charges on such Revenue Bonds.
The Fiscal Officer shall provide for
the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
escrow agreement from proceeds of
the Series 1997 Refunding Bonds to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose. Provision shall be
made in the escrow agreement to
give the Trustee any written notice
of redemption required under Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture.
The Executive Officer, the Fiscal
Officer, the Director of Port Control
and other appropriate Issuer officials shall execute all documents
and take all other actions necessary
or appropriate on the part of the
Issuer to effect such refunding in
accordance with the Original Indenture and to cause the refunded Revenue Bonds to be deemed paid and
discharged.
Section 7. Tax Covenants.
Certain of the Series 1997 Bonds
are to be issued and sold as obligations bearing interest to be excluded from gross income for federal
income tax purposes (the “TaxExempt
Bonds”).
The
Issuer
covenants that it will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the interest on the Tax-Exempt
Bonds will be excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and (b) in the case of any
Tax-Exempt Bonds qualifying as
bonds, the interest on which is not
treated as an item of tax preference
under Section 57 of the Code (“NonAMT Bonds”), such Tax-Exempt
Bonds will be treated as Non-AMT
Bonds.
The Issuer further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among

726

May 21, 1997
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds to the governmental purposes
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield on investment property, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds and, as applicable, of
property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Fiscal Officer, or any other
officer of the Issuer having responsibility for issuance of the TaxExempt Bonds, is hereby authorized
(a) to make or effect any election,
selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or waiver on behalf
of the Issuer with respect to the
Tax- Exempt Bonds as the Issuer is
permitted or required to make or
give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the
Code or available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of
assuring, enhancing or protecting
favorable tax treatment or status of
the Tax-Exempt Bonds or interest
thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with requirements for that purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
such
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate amount or payments of penalties, or making payments of special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which
action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the Issuer, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Tax-Exempt Bonds,
and (c) to give one or more appropriate certificates of the Issuer, for
inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Tax-Exempt Bonds,
setting forth the reasonable expectations of the Issuer regarding the
amount and use of all the proceeds
of the Tax-Exempt Bonds, the facts,
circumstances
and
estimates
on
which they are based, and other
facts and circumstances relevant to
the tax treatment of the interest on
and the tax status of the TaxExempt Bonds.
Each covenant made in this Section with respect to the Tax-Exempt
Bonds is also made with respect to
all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Tax- Exempt Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the TaxExempt Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this Section to take
with respect to the Tax-Exempt
Bonds.
Section
8.
Third
Supplemental
Indenture and Other Documents;
Amendments to Use Agreements.
The Executive Officer, the Fiscal
Officer and the Director of Port Control, or any two of them, are here-

May 21, 1997
by authorized and directed, in the
name and on behalf of the Issuer, to
make, execute, acknowledge, and
deliver to the Trustee, a Third Supplemental Indenture, approved as to
form and correctness by the Legal
Officer, substantially in the form on
file with the Clerk in connection
with this Series 1997 Bond Legislation in File No. 923-97-A. The form
of the Third Supplemental Indenture
is approved with such changes
therein as are not inconsistent with
this Series 1997 Bond Legislation
and not adverse to the Issuer and
which are permitted by the Constitution and laws of Ohio and as shall
be approved by the officers signing
the Third Supplemental Indenture.
The approval of those changes, and
the determination that such changes
are not adverse to the Issuer, shall
be conclusively evidenced by the
signing of the Third Supplemental
Indenture by those officials. The
Third Supplemental Indenture may
also
include
such
additional
covenants of the Issuer as the Executive Officer, the Fiscal Officer and
the Director of Port Control, or any
two of them signing the Third Supplemental Indenture, deem necessary or appropriate to obtain favorable ratings on or credit enhancement for the Series 1997 Bonds or to
enhance their marketability.
To the extent permitted by the
Indenture, the Issuer is authorized,
from time to time, to enter into one
or more agreements in connection
with or subsequent to the issuance
of the Series 1997 Bonds, for an
interest rate swap, an interest rate
cap, or any other such arrangement
to lower the effective interest rate
on the Series 1997 Bonds or to
hedge the exposure of the Issuer
against fluctuations in prevailing
interest rates (a “Rate Exchange
Agreement”), and to secure its
obligations to the counterparties in
any such Rate Exchange Agreements on a parity with its obligations to holders of Revenue Bonds
under the Indenture, subject to
such conditions and restrictions as
may be specified therein. The Fiscal Officer is authorized, on behalf
of the Issuer, to execute and deliver one or more Rate Exchange
Agreements that meet the requirements of the Indenture and that he
determines, based upon the advice
of the Issuer’s Financial Advisor,
will reduce the net Bond service
charges payable on the Series 1997
Bonds or otherwise enhance the
timing and amount of the payments
thereof for the Issuer’s purposes to
an extent that justifies the cost of
the Issuer’s entering into such
Agreements.
The Executive Officer, the Fiscal
Officer, the Director of Port Control,
the Legal Officer, the Clerk and
such other officers of the Issuer as
may be appropriate are authorized
and directed to furnish, execute and
deliver such documents, certifications and instruments as may be
necessary or appropriate to issue
the Series 1997 Bonds and to consummate the transactions contemplated in the Indenture, any Rate
Exchange Agreement, and the Bond
Purchase Agreement described in
Section 9. The Clerk or other appropriate official of the Issuer shall
furnish
the
Original
Purchasers
identified in Section 9 a true transcript of proceedings certified by
the Clerk or other official, of all proceedings had with reference to the
issuance of the Series 1997 Bonds
along with such information for the

The City Record
records as is necessary to determine
the regularity and validity of the
issuance of the Series 1997 Bonds.
In the event that the Issuer’s
entering into any agreements with
respect to the Series 1997 Bonds or
any
Rate
Exchange
Agreement
requires any amendments to the
Original Indenture as amended and
supplemented by the First and Second Supplemental Indentures that
require the consent of holders of the
requisite percentage of outstanding
Revenue Bonds in order for such
amendments to become effective, in
accordance with Section 13.02 of the
Original Indenture, then, subject to
obtaining such consent of those
holders,
the
Third
Supplemental
Indenture may include such amendments to the Original Indenture as
theretofore amended for the purpose
of causing the Indenture to permit
the Issuer, from time to time, to
enter into such agreements. If any
such amendments are required, the
Fiscal Officer is authorized to seek
such consent from the holders of the
Revenue Bonds to be outstanding
upon the issuance of the Series 1997
Bonds, including the Original Purchasers.
This Series 1997 Bond Legislation
shall constitute a part of the Third
Supplemental Indenture as therein
provided and for all purposes thereof, including, without limitation, the
application to this Series 1997 Bond
Legislation of the provisions of the
Indenture relating to amendment,
modification, supplementation and
severability.
The Director of Port Control of
the Issuer is hereby authorized and
directed to execute and deliver to
the Airlines such amendments to the
existing lease and use agreements
as are necessary and appropriate to
cause those agreements to reflect
the issuance of the Series 1997
Bonds and the execution and delivery
of
the
Third
Supplemental
Indenture and to be consistent with
the Third Supplemental Indenture.
Section 9. Designation of Original
Purchasers; Bond Purchase Agreement; Official Statement; Continuing
Disclosure.
The Series 1997 Bonds are hereby
awarded to the following underwriters: Smith Barney Inc., A.G.
Edwards
&
Sons,
Inc.,
Lehman
Brothers, Merrill, Lynch & Co., J.P.
Morgan Securities Inc., and SBKBrooks Investment Corp. (collectively, the “Original Purchasers”); provided, however, that if, in the reasonable opinion of the Fiscal Officer, an underwriter is incapable of
fully performing its duties or meeting its obligations in its capacity as
an Original Purchaser with respect
to the Series 1997 Bonds, the Fiscal
Officer is hereby authorized and
directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the Issuer, to take whatever actions may be necessary to
terminate that underwriter’s standing as Original Purchaser. The Fiscal Officer is further hereby authorized and directed, in the name and
on behalf of the Issuer, to execute
and deliver the Bond Purchase
Agreement, approved as to form and
correctness by the Legal Officer,
which shall incorporate the terms of
the Series 1997 Bonds as determined
pursuant to this Series 1997 Bond
Legislation and the Series 1997 Certificate of Award and shall set forth
the date, location, procedure and
conditions for the delivery of the
Series 1997 Bonds, including without
limitation any conditions relating to
the obtaining of an insurance poli-

727

27
cy, bank letter or line of credit, or
other form of credit or liquidity
facility to enhance the security or
marketability of the Series 1997
Bonds, the obtaining of which credit or liquidity facility the Fiscal
Officer determines serves the best
interest of the Issuer by achieving
a net reduction in the Bond service
charges on the Series 1997 Bonds.
The Bond Purchase Agreement shall
be substantially in the form now on
file with the Clerk in File No. 92397-A with such changes therein or
thereto not inconsistent with the
Indenture, this Series 1997 Bond
Legislation or the Series 1997 Certificate of Award and not substantially adverse to the Issuer as may
be approved by the Fiscal Officer.
The approval of any such changes
by the Fiscal Officer and the determination by the Fiscal Officer that
no such change is substantially
adverse to the Issuer shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution
of the Bond Purchase Agreement by
the Fiscal Officer.
The Executive Officer, the Fiscal
Officer, the Director of Port Control,
the Legal Officer and other Issuer
officials as appropriate are directed
to make the necessary arrangements
on behalf of the Issuer to establish
the date, location, procedure and
conditions for the delivery of the
Series 1997 Bonds to the Original
Purchaser and to take all actions
necessary to effect due signing,
authentication and delivery of the
Series 1997 Bonds under the terms
of the Series 1997 Bond Legislation,
the Third Supplemental Indenture,
the Bond Purchase Agreement and
the Indenture.
The Executive Officer, the Fiscal
Officer and other Issuer officials as
deemed appropriate, each are authorized and directed, on behalf of the
Issuer and in their official capacities, to (i) prepare or cause to be
prepared, and make or authorize
modifications,
completions
or
changes of or supplements to, a disclosure document in the form of a
preliminary official statement relating to the issuance of the Series
1997 Bonds, and (ii) determine, and
certify or otherwise represent, when
the preliminary official statement as
so prepared is a “deemed final” official statement (except for permitted
omissions) by the Issuer as of its
date for purposes of SEC Rule 15c212(b)(1). The distribution and use
of such a preliminary official statement
is
hereby
authorized
and
approved.
Those officers and each of them
are also authorized and directed, on
behalf of the Issuer and in their
official capacities, to complete that
preliminary official statement with
such modifications, changes and
supplements as those officers shall
approve or authorize for the purpose
of preparing and determining, and
to certify or otherwise represent,
that the official statement as so
revised is a final official statement
for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b)
(3) and (4). Those officers each are
further authorized to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, the final official statement and supplements thereto in
connection
with
the
original
issuance of the Series 1997 Bonds as
may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Those officers
each are further authorized to sign
and deliver, on behalf of the Issuer
and in their official capacities, the
final official statement and such
certificates in connection with the

28
accuracy of the preliminary official
statement and the final official
statement
and
any
amendment
thereto as may, in their judgment,
also be necessary or appropriate.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Series 1997 Bonds, the Issuer
agrees, in accordance with, and as
an obligated person with respect to
the Series 1997 Bonds under, SEC
Rule 15c2-12, to provide or cause to
be provided such financial information and operating data and notices,
in such manner, as may be required
for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2-12. In
order to describe and specify certain
terms of the Issuer’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose,
and
thereby
to
implement
that
agreement, including provisions for
enforcement, amendment and termination, the Executive Officer and
the Fiscal Officer are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
Issuer,
a
continuing
disclosure
agreement
or
certificate,
which
shall constitute the continuing disclosure agreement made by the
Issuer for the benefit of the holders
and beneficial owners of the Series
1997 Bonds in accordance with SEC
Rule 15c2-12. The performance of
that agreement shall be subject to
the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the Issuer would be required to
incur to perform it.
The Fiscal Officer is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the Issuer with its continuing
disclosure
agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices. Prior to
making any filing in accordance
with that agreement or providing
notice of the occurrence of any other
events, the Fiscal Officer shall consult with, as appropriate, the legal
counsel and bond or other qualified
independent special counsel to the
Issuer. The Fiscal Officer, acting in
the name and on behalf of the
Issuer, shall be entitled to rely upon
any legal advice provided by any
such
counsel
in
determining
whether a filing should be made.
The preparation and distribution
of a preliminary official statement
with respect to the Series 1997
Bonds are hereby authorized and
approved. A final official statement
with respect to the Series 1997
Bonds shall be prepared, executed
and delivered to the Original Purchasers by the Fiscal Officer and
the Director of Port Control, or
either of them on behalf of the
Issuer and in their respective capacities, in form and substance suitable
for the purposes thereof as the officer or officers executing the same
on
behalf
of
the
Issuer
shall
approve. The Original Purchasers’
use and distribution of such Official
Statement
and
any
supplements
thereto as so executed in accordance
with the terms of the Bond Purchase
Agreement is hereby authorized and
approved.
Notwithstanding anything herein
to the contrary, the Fiscal Officer
may decline to execute and deliver
the Bond Purchase Agreement on
behalf of the Issuer in the event
that the Original Purchasers fail to
offer to purchase the Series 1997
Bonds on terms which are consistent
with the requirements of this Series
1997 Bond Legislation or in the
event that the Fiscal Officer determines that the terms offered by the

The City Record
Original Purchasers are otherwise
unacceptable to the Issuer, but the
execution of the Bond Purchase
Agreement by the Fiscal Officer
shall
conclusively
evidence
the
absence of any such determination.
Section 10. Lien of Pledge Hereunder.
The Airport Revenues are subject
to the lien of the pledge under the
Indenture
without
any
physical
delivery of the Airport Revenues or
further act, and the lien of such
pledge is valid and binding against
all parties having claims of any
kind against the Issuer (irrespective
of whether such parties have notice
of such pledge and create a perfected security interest for all purposes of Chapter 1309, Ohio Revised
Code) without the necessity for separation of delivery of the Airport
Revenues or for the filing or recording of the Indenture or any other
resolution or instrument by which
such pledge is created or any certificate, statement, or other document with respect to such pledge.
The pledge of the Airport Revenues
under the Indenture shall be effective and the money therefrom and
thereof may be applied to the purposes for which pledged without
necessity for any further act of
appropriation.
Section 11. Appointment of Successor Trustee.
The Executive Officer and the
Fiscal Officer, or any one of them,
are hereby authorized to appoint a
successor Trustee in the event that
the current Trustee, Mellon Bank,
F.S.B., shall resign or be removed,
or be dissolved or otherwise become
incapable of
acting
as Trustee
under the Indenture, or in case it
shall be taken under the control of
any public officer or officers or of
a receiver appointed by a court, in
accordance with the provisions of
Section 12.08 of the Original Indenture.
Section 12. Open Meeting Determination.
It is found and determined that all
formal actions of the Governing
Body concerning and relating to the
adoption of this Bond Legislation
were adopted in an open meeting of
the Governing Body, and that all
deliberations of the Governing Body
and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were
in meetings open to the public in
compliance with all applicable legal
requirements.
Section 13. Separability.
Each section of this Series 1997
Bond Legislation and each subdivision of any section hereof is hereby
declared to be independent, and the
finding or holding of any section or
subdivision of any section hereof to
be invalid or void shall not be
deemed or held to affect the validity of any other section or subdivision of this Series 1997 Bond Legislation.
Section 14. Recitals.
It is hereby determined and recited that all acts, conditions and
things necessary to be done precedent to and in the issuing of the
Series 1997 Bonds in order to make
the same legal, valid and binding
special obligations issued by the
City of Cleveland, Ohio will have
happened, been done and performed
or will happen, be done and performed in regular and due form as
required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, is
applicable to the issuance of the
Series 1997 Bonds.

728

May 21, 1997
Section 15. Emergency.
This ordinance is hereby declared
to be an emergency measure and,
provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by
the Executive Officer; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 924-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $45,000,000 to advance
refund certain of the city’s outstanding various purpose general
obligation bonds issued in the years
1992 and 1994 and to pay expenses
incurred in the issuance of those
bonds
and
that
refunding,
and
authorizing the execution and delivery of an escrow agreement and
other agreements with respect to
the bonds and the advance refunding.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
Nos. 726-92, 727-92, 728-92, 729-92 and
731-92, all passed on April 27, 1992,
Various Purpose General Obligation
Bonds, Series 1992A, in the aggregate principal amount of $26,000,000,
dated as of June 1, 1992 (the “1992
Various
Purpose
Bonds”),
were
issued for the purpose of providing
funds to pay costs of the following:
(i) $6,975,000 principal amount for
constructing, renovating, rehabilitating, furnishing, equipping and
otherwise improving, safety facilities, vehicle and equipment maintenance facilities for various City
Departments,
street
maintenance
facilities, public convention facilities, waste collection facilities, judicial facilities, greenhouse facilities,
and facilities for administrative
functions
related
thereto,
and
together
with all
appurtenances
necessary and incidental thereto,
and to pay the costs of acquiring
any necessary interests in real
estate (Ordinance No. 726-92) (“Project No. 1”); (ii) $1,030,000 principal
amount for certain improvements
related to residential development
and redevelopment, including land
acquisition and consolidation, site
clearance and preparation, the construction of water and sewer lines,
catch basins and storm drainage
facilities,
the
construction
and
improvement
of
certain
streets,
roadways, driveways and pedestrian
walkways by the widening, grading, draining, curbing and paving
thereof, the installation of street
lighting and traffic signs and signalization, and the installation of
utility
lines
and
improvements,
together
with all appurtenances
necessary and incidental thereto
(Ordinance No. 727-92) (“Project No.
2”); (iii) $9,650,000 principal amount
for improving the municipal street
system and related facilities, including certain streets and expressways, between certain termini, and
improving certain roadways, driveways
and
pedestrian
walkways
located within or through City facilities by widening, grading, draining,
curbing
and
paving
such
streets, expressways, roadways, driveways and pedestrian walkways,
by resetting and constructing catch

May 21, 1997
basins and storm drainage facilities
in and under said streets, expressways,
roadways,
driveways
and
pedestrian walkways, by planting
trees and landscaping, by relocating
City-owned utility lines in connection
therewith,
by
constructing,
reconstructing,
renovating
and
rehabilitating bridges, by installing
gutters,
sidewalks
and
related
pedestrian improvements, by acquiring any interests in real estate necessary for such purposes, and by
installing signs, signals, markings
and other devices for traffic control
purposes, together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental
thereto (Ordinance No. 728-92) (“Project No. 3”); (iv) $6,845,000 principal
amount for improving municipal
recreational facilities by constructing, renovating, rehabilitating, furnishing, equipping and otherwise
improving, and acquiring any necessary interest in real estate for,
pools, parks, playgrounds, recreation centers, and recreation facilities, together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental
thereto (Ordinance No. 729-92) (“Project No. 4”); and (v) $1,500,000 principal amount for improving municipal
cemetery
facilities
by
constructing, renovating, and rehabilitating
such
facilities
including
clearing, grading and excavating
land, installing drainage and sewer
lines, installing access roadways
including any necessary bridges
and culverts, installing utility lines,
laying out and numbering burial
plots, and planting and landscaping,
together
with all
appurtenances
necessary and incidental thereto,
and to pay the costs of acquiring
any necessary interests in real
estate (Ordinance No. 731-92) (“Project No. 5”); and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
Nos. 872-94, 873-94, 874-94 and 875-94,
all passed on May 23, 1994, Various
Purpose General Obligation Bonds,
Series 1994, in the aggregate principal amount of $41,790,000, dated
as of October 1, 1994 (the “1994 Various Purpose Bonds”), were issued
for the purpose of providing funds
to pay costs of the following: (i)
$24,545,000
principal
amount for
improving the municipal street system and related facilities, including
certain streets and expressways
between
certain
termini,
and
improving certain roadways, driveways
and
pedestrian
walkways
located within or through City
facilities
by
widening,
grading,
draining, curbing and paving such
streets, expressways, roadways, driveways and pedestrian walkways,
by resetting and constructing catch
basins and storm drainage facilities
in and under said streets, expressways, roadways, driveways and
pedestrian walkways, by planting
trees and landscaping, by relocating City-owned utility lines in connection therewith, by constructing,
reconstructing,
renovating
and
rehabilitating bridges, by installing
gutters,
sidewalks
and
related
pedestrian
improvements,
by
acquiring any interests in real
estate necessary for such purposes,
and by installing signs, signals,
markings and other devices for
traffic control purposes, together
with all appurtenances necessary
and incidental thereto (Ordinance
No. 872-94) (“Project No. 6”); (ii)
$6,325,000
principal
amount
for
improving municipal recreational
facilities by constructing, renovating,
rehabilitating,
furnishing,
equipping and otherwise improving,

The City Record
and acquiring any necessary interest in real estate for, pools, parks,
playgrounds,
recreation
centers,
and recreation facilities, together
with all appurtenances necessary
and incidental thereto (Ordinance
No. 873-94) (“Project No. 7”); (iii)
$1,020,000 principal amount for certain improvements related to urban
renewal and residential development and redevelopment, including
land acquisition and consolidation,
site clearance and preparation, the
construction of water and sewer
lines,
catch
basins
and
storm
drainage facilities, the construction
and improvement of certain streets,
roadways, driveways and pedestrian walkways by the widening,
grading,
draining,
curbing
and
paving thereof, the installation of
street lighting and traffic signs
and signalization, and the installation of utility lines and improvements, together with all appurtenances necessary and incidental
thereto (Ordinance No. 874- 94)
(“Project No. 8”); and (iv) $9,900,000
principal amount for constructing,
renovating, rehabilitating, furnishing,
equipping
and
otherwise
improving, safety facilities, vehicle
and equipment maintenance facilities for various City Departments,
street maintenance facilities, waste
collection facilities, parking facilities, West Side Market facilities,
City Hall, and facilities for administrative functions related to the
foregoing, and together with all
appurtenances necessary and incidental thereto, and to pay the costs
of acquiring any necessary interests in real estate therefor (Ordinance No. 875-94) (“Project No. 9”);
and
Whereas, this Council finds and
determines that: (i) it is necessary
and in the best interest of the City
to advance refund the 1992 Various
Purpose Bonds that are stated to
mature on July 1 in the years 2006
(serial bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $1,585,000), 2007
(serial bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $1,680,000), and 2012
(term bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $10,165,000), inclusive, and the 1994 Various Purpose
Bonds that are stated to mature on
November 15 in the years 2008 (serial bonds in the aggregate principal
amount of $2,460,000), 2009 (serial
bonds in the aggregate principal
amount of $2,610,000), 2010 (serial
bonds in the aggregate principal
amount of $2,785,000), 2011 (serial
bonds in the aggregate principal
amount of $2,965,000), 2014 (term
bonds in the aggregate principal
amount of $5,195,000), and 2018
(term bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $4,965,000), inclusive
(those outstanding bonds, together
with any other outstanding unvoted
general obligation bonds of the City
designated to be refunded pursuant
to Section 1 are collectively referred
to as the “Refunded Bonds”); and
(ii) to issue the Bonds described in
Section 1 to provide funds for that
purpose, including the payment of
any
expenses
relating
to
the
advance refunding of the Refunded
Bonds or the issuance of the Bonds;
and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or period of usefulness of
each of the Projects was, at the time
the original indebtedness for each
Project was incurred, at least five
years, and that the maximum maturity of that portion of the Bonds to

729

29
be allocated to each of the Projects
is set forth below for the respective
Projects:
Project
No.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9

Maximum
Maturity
July 1, 2018
July 1, 2017
July 1, 2010
July 1, 2015
July 1, 2003
November 15,
November 15,
November 15,
November 15,

2012
2018
2024
2018

Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to advance refund the Refunded
Bonds which will enable the City to
obtain debt service savings which
are urgently needed for the benefit
of the City, and as a result, this
Ordinance constitutes an emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public, peace,
property, health and safety, and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary that Bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
Forty-Five
Million
Dollars
($45,000,000) be issued for the purpose
of
advance
refunding
the
Refunded Bonds that the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
advice of the City’s financial advisor, would be advantageous to the
City to advance refund due to savings in bond service charges or the
restructuring of the currently scheduled bond service charges or otherwise to better serve the interests of
the City, and for the purpose of paying any expenses relating to the
advance refunding of the Refunded
Bonds and the issuance of the
Bonds, including all financing costs
within the meaning of Revised Code
Section 133.15(B).
The aggregate principal amount
of Bonds to be issued shall not
exceed $45,000,000 and shall be in an
amount determined by the Director
of Finance to be the aggregate principal amount of Bonds that are
required to be issued, taking into
account
any
discount
from
the
aggregate principal amount of the
Bonds at which they are sold to the
Original Purchaser, in order to
effect the purpose for which the
Bonds are to be issued, including
the payment of any expenses relating to the advance refunding of the
Refunded Bonds and the issuance of
the Bonds, which amount shall be
set forth in the certificate providing
for the final terms of the Bonds and
the sale of the Bonds and signed by
the Director of Finance in accor-

30
dance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”). The Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that additional
maturities or different maturities of
the series of unvoted general obligation bonds of the City identified in
the preambles of this Ordinance and
issued for the purpose of providing
funds to pay costs of Project Nos. 1
through 9 may be refunded and
thereby constitute Refunded Bonds;
provided that in adding or changing
such maturities the Director of
Finance determines, based on advice
from the City’s financial advisor,
that advance refunding such maturities generates present value debt
service savings to the City or otherwise is in the best interests of the
City, taking into account all the factors that the Director of Finance
and the City’s financial advisor
deem relevant to such determination.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Revised
Code Chapter 133, and other applicable provisions of the Revised Code,
the Charter of the City, the General
Bond Ordinance, and this Ordinance
in the principal amount and for the
purpose stated in Section 1. The
Bonds shall be designated “Refunding Bonds, Series 1997” or as otherwise determined by the Director of
Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in one
lot as fully registered Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof but in no case
as to a particular maturity date
exceeding
the
principal
amount
maturing on that date. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
August 1, 1997 or such other date
specified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award, but in no event later than
December 31, 1997. The Bonds shall
bear interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per year or at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award; provided that if
all the Bonds bear interest at the
same rate per year, then such rate
shall not exceed nine percent (9%)
per year, and if the Bonds bear
interest at more than one rate per
year, then the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed nine percent (9%)
per year. Interest on the Bonds shall
be
payable,
until
the
principal
amount is paid, semi-annually on
February 1 and August 1 of each
year or on the first day of each of
two months specified in the Certificate of Award as the dates on which
interest on the Bonds shall be
payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”), beginning February 1, 1998,
or on such other Interest Payment
Date specified in the Certificate of
Award as the first Interest Payment
Date. The Bonds shall bear interest
from the most recent date to which
interest has been paid or provided
for or, if no interest has been paid
or provided for, from their date.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as
shall be determined by the Director
of Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i)
each principal payment shall occur
on an Interest Payment Date, (ii)
the first principal payment on the
Bonds shall be no earlier than January 1, 1998 and no later than

The City Record
August 1, 1999, (iii) the final maturity date of the Bonds shall be no
later than the last maturity permitted by law for the Refunded Bonds,
and (iv) the principal amount thereof shall be payable in annual
installments such that the total principal and interest payments on the
Bonds in any fiscal year in which
principal is payable, is not more
than three times the amount of
those payments for the Refunded
Bonds in any fiscal year in which
principal
was
payable
on
the
Refunded Bonds.
The Director of Finance also
shall determine, in the Certificate of
Award or otherwise, on or prior to
the date of delivery of the Bonds to
the Original Purchaser, that portion
of the aggregate principal amount
of the Bonds that is allocable to
each Project, and the principal
amount of Bonds allocated to each
Project that shall be payable annually at stated maturity or pursuant
to Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements
(as
defined
below) on each principal payment
date; provided, that (i) the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds
allocable to a Project shall be determined by the Director of Finance on
a pro rata basis by reference to the
respective amount of funds that is
required for the advance refunding
of the Refunded Bonds that are allocable to that Project, taking into
account any funds other than the
proceeds of the Bonds that are available and appropriated for that purpose, (ii) no portion of the aggregate principal amount of Bonds allocated to a Project shall be payable
later than the maximum maturity
for that portion of the Bonds as certified by the Director of Finance,
and (iii) a portion of the aggregate
principal amount of Bonds allocated
to a Project shall be payable annually at stated maturity or pursuant
to Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements on each principal
payment date on which the Director
of Finance determines in the Certificate of Award or otherwise that
principal of Bonds allocated to that
Project shall be payable.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent

730

May 21, 1997
for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include
amounts
sufficient
to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemption obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b)
Optional
Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date and
the maximum redemption price shall
be no greater than 102% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the

May 21, 1997
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar. In
the event that notice of redemption
shall have been given by the Registrar to the registered owners as
hereinafter provided, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, funds
which, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus interest accrued to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register main-

The City Record
tained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying agent.
Principal shall be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
fifteenth day of the calendar month
next preceding that Interest Payment
Date
(the
Record
Date).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance,
so long as the Bonds are held by a
Depository in a book entry system
(as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or

731

31
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), which are
not included in this Ordinance and
will not apply to the Bonds, the General Bond Ordinance is included as
a part of this Ordinance as fully as
if restated herein. Words and terms
not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as set forth
in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Code and the foregoing requirement that each Bond
bear the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
Star Bank, N.A., is appointed to
act as the authenticating agent,
bond registrar, transfer agent and
paying agent for the Bonds (the
Registrar);
provided
that
the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Bonds so long as
the Bonds are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, the Registrar Agreement among the City,
the Registrar and the Escrow Agent
(the Agreement) in substantially
the form as is now on file with the
Clerk of Council in File No. 924-97A. The Agreement is approved,
together
with
any
changes
or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Agreement or amendments to the
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the Bond Register).
Subject to the provisions of Section
5, the person in whose name a Bond
is registered on the Bond Register
shall be regarded as the absolute
owner of that Bond for all purposes
of this ordinance. Payment of or on

32
account of the debt charges on any
Bond shall be made only to or upon
the order of that person; neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.

The City Record
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be
transferable
or
exchangeable,
except
for
transfer
to
another
Depository or to another nominee of
a Depository, without further action
by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to
Lehman Brothers, Merrill, Lynch &
Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co.,

732

May 21, 1997
Inc., and SBK-Brooks Investment
Corp. (collectively, the “Original
Purchaser”); provided, however, that
if, in the reasonable opinion of the
Director of Finance, an underwriter
is incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase
Agreement
including:
the
principal amount of the Bonds, the
final purchase price (which shall be
not less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), the interest
rate or rates, the amounts and years
in which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the
date of the Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 2) and the
portion of the principal amount of
the Bonds allocable to each Project.
If it is determined advisable by the
Director of Finance for the sale of
the Bonds, the Director of Finance
is authorized to sign agreements
with a municipal bond insurer issuing a policy of municipal bond
insurance for the Bonds that are not
materially inconsistent with this
Ordinance. The Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Law and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized and
directed to take such actions as are
necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for
delivery of the Bonds and to make
such arrangements as are necessary
with the Original Purchaser in order
to establish the date, location, and
procedure, and conditions for the
delivery of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and certificates, to cause
a true transcript or proceedings
with reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Mayor and the Director
of Finance are, and each of them is,
hereby
further
authorized
and
directed to execute and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds,
provided that such agreement shall
not provide for or require the terms
of the Bonds to be inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement is approved substantially in the form now on the file with

May 21, 1997
the Clerk of Council in the File No.
referenced in Section 3 of this Ordinance, together with any changes or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement. It is hereby determined
that the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may
be provided in or pursuant to the
Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an
Official Statement is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
original issuance of the Bonds, those
officers in their official capacities
are authorized to prepare or cause
to be prepared on behalf of the City
an Official Statement and any necessary supplements thereto, and on
behalf of the City to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, that Official Statement
and any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of
the Bonds, and each of those officers is authorized to sign on behalf
of the City and in his or her official
capacity, that Official Statement and
any supplements thereto approved
by such officer. Those officers are
and each of them is authorized to
sign and deliver, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of the Official Statement and any supplements thereto
as may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Such officers
are also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”).
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute an agreement made by the
City for the benefit of the holders
and beneficial owners of the Bonds
in accordance with the Rule. The
City’s performance of that agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds and their annual
appropriation to meet costs the City
would be required to incur to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its
continuing
disclosure
agreement, including the timely provi-

The City Record
sion of information and notices.
Prior to making any filing in accordance with that agreement or providing notice of the occurrence of
any other events, the Director of
Finance
shall
consult
with,
as
appropriate, the legal counsel and
bond or other qualified independent
special counsel to the City.
The
Director of Finance, acting in the
name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 1997”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.

733

33
Section 6. Application of Proceeds. Pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance and in accordance
with Chapter 179 of the Codified
Ordinances, the proceeds of the
Bonds (except
for
(a)
accrued
interest thereon and any premium
and (b) the proceeds of the Bonds
to be applied to pay costs of issuing the Bonds and refunding the
Refunded Bonds and costs of any
credit enhancement, which amounts
shall be specified in the Certificate
of Award) shall be deposited in a
special and separate bank account
with
The
Huntington
National
Bank, Cleveland, Ohio and held by
that Bank as Escrow Agent, and
shall be expended and applied,
immediately upon receipt of such
proceeds, in the manner provided
by the General Bond Ordinance for
the
payment
of
debt
service
charges on the Refunded Bonds
from and after the date of issuance
of the Bonds to and including their
respective maturity dates.
Pursuant to Section 133.34 of the
Revised Code and this Ordinance,
the proceeds so deposited and the
investment
income
thereon
are
pledged for that purpose. Accrued
interest and any premium received
from the sale of the Bonds shall be
transferred to the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds. The proceeds
of the Bonds to be applied to pay
the cost of issuing the Bonds shall
be deposited in a separate account
in the Bond Retirement Fund pending their application to the payment
of such costs.
The
Mayor
and
Director
of
Finance are authorized and directed to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the Issuer, an
agreement
(the
“Escrow
Agreement”) between the City and the
Escrow Agent, providing for the
investment and holding in escrow of
the proceeds of the Bonds (except
for (a) accrued interest thereon and
any premium and (b) the proceeds
of the Bonds to be applied to pay
issuance costs and costs of any
credit enhancement) and for the
application of the moneys derived
from such investments, in accordance with the General Bond Ordinance and this Ordinance and as
otherwise directed by law. Notice of
the
advance
refunding
of
the
Refunded Bonds and any early
redemption of Refunded Bonds shall
be given in accordance with the
terms of the Refunded Bonds and as
further provided in the Escrow
Agreement. The Refunded Bonds
shall be retired at stated maturity
or redeemed in accordance with the
ordinance authorizing the respective bonds and the Escrow Agreement. The Mayor and Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and
for
reimbursement
of
expenses
incurred pursuant to the Escrow
Agreement from money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose. The
Mayor and Director of Finance and
other
appropriate
City
officials
shall execute all documents and
take all other actions necessary or
appropriate on the part of the City
to effect the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds in accordance with
the General Bond Ordinance and
this Ordinance and as otherwise
directed by law, and to cause the
Refunded Bonds to be deemed paid
and discharged.

34
If U.S. Treasury Securities —
State and Local Government Series
are to be purchased for the Escrow
Fund, the Escrow Agent is hereby
specifically authorized to file, on
behalf of the City, subscriptions for
the purchase and issuance of those
U.S. Treasury Securities - State and
Local Government Series.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such

The City Record
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of the City which
are inconsistent with the provisions
of this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds authorized herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be
deemed to alter or restrict such full
application of the General Bond
Ordinance, except for the exclusion
from
application
to
the
Bonds
authorized herein of the provisions
of the third paragraph of Section
13(a) and the third paragraph of
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance pursuant to Section 2 of this
Ordinance.
Section 10. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section
11.
Federal
Tax
Covenants. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (a) the Bonds will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds under
Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the Code) or (ii) be treated other than as bonds to which
Section 103(a) of the Code applies,
and (b) the interest thereon will
not be treated as an item of tax
preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be
taken such actions that may be
required of it for the interest on
the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for
federal income tax purposes, and
(b) it will not take or authorize to
be taken any actions that would
adversely affect
that exclusion,
and (c) it, or persons acting for it,
will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the

734

May 21, 1997
yield
on
investment
property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments to the federal government,
(iv) maintain books and records
and make calculations and reports,
and (v) refrain from certain uses
of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property financed with such
proceeds, all in such manner and to
the extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Bonds is
also made with respect to all issues
any portion of the debt service on
which is paid from proceeds of the
Bonds (and, if different, the original
issue and any refunding issues in a
series of refundings), to the extent
such compliance is necessary to
assure exclusion of interest on the
Bonds from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above are authorized
to take actions with respect to those
issues as they are authorized in this
section to take with respect to the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Bonds is hereby
authorized (a) to make or effect any
election,
selection,
designation,
choice, consent, approval, or waiver
on behalf of the City with respect
to the Bonds as the City is permitted or required to make or give
under the federal income tax laws,
including, without limitation thereto, any of the elections provided for
in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code
or available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Bonds
or interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that
purpose, reducing the burden or
expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or payments
or penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Bonds, and (c) to
give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for inclusion in
the transcript of proceedings for the
Bonds, setting forth the reasonable
expectations of the City regarding
the amount and use of all the proceeds of the Bonds, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which
they are based, and other facts and
circumstances relevant to the tax
treatment of the interest on and the
tax status of the Bonds.
Section 12. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this Ordinance were
passed in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.

May 21, 1997
Section 13. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds in order to make
them legal, valid and binding obligations of the City have happened,
been done and been performed in
regular and due form as required be
law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness
or
taxation,
either
statutory or constitutional, will have
been exceeded in the issuance of the
Bonds. It is further found and determined, and is hereby represented
and recited, that the provisions of
Sections 28, 29, 32, 33 (including the
provisions of Section 33 with respect
to readings on three separate days
or dispensing with such readings by
a two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 14. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 15. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 16. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 17. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing for the refunding
of the Refunded Bonds which will
enable the City to obtain debt service savings and for the usual daily
operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of two-

The City Record
thirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 925-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
bonds in the maximum principal
amount of $1,150,000 for the purpose
of
providing
funds
for
public
improvements of municipal properties and easements in residential
areas and to pay capitalized interest and all expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the
bonds; to authorize agreements with
respect to the bonds; and to authorize the issuance of notes in anticipation of such bonds.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed One Million One Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($1,150,000) (the “Bonds”) to
finance the cost of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council that the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is at least
five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Bonds is twenty (20)
years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance thereunder of unvoted general obligations of the City and the
General Bond Ordinance was passed
in contemplation of this Ordinance
and other ordinances authorizing
the issuance of bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the issuance of the
Bonds is necessary to provide funds
to pay the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1, which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City, and as a
result, this Ordinance constitutes an
emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health and
safety, and for the usual daily operation of a municipal department;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed One Million One Hundred
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($1,150,000)
for the purpose of providing funds
for public improvements of municipal properties and easements in residential areas by constructing and
reconstructing
sidewalks,
curbs,
gutters and driveway approaches,
together with the provision of all
necessary and incidental appurtenances in all cases, including the
acquisition of any required real

735

35
estate and interests in real estate,
and to pay capitalized interest and
all expenses incurred in connection
with the issuance of the Bonds,
including any financing costs within the meaning of Revised Code Section 133.01(K), and such other costs
of the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with
the proceeds of securities as permitted by Revised Code Section
133.15(B) and as otherwise permitted by law; and to authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of
such Bonds.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance in the principal amount
and for the purpose stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Residential Areas Improvement Bonds, Series 1997”. The Bonds
shall be issued in one lot as fully
registered Bonds in denominations
of $5,000 or any integral multiple
thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
August 1, 1997, or such other date,
but in no event later than December 31, 1997, specified in the certificate of award providing for the
final terms of the Bonds and the
sale of the Bonds and signed by the
Director of Finance in accordance
with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”). The Bonds shall
bear interest at the rate of nine percent (9%) per year or at the rate
or rates per year specified in the
Certificate of Award; provided that
if all the Bonds bear interest at the
same rate per year, then such rate
shall not exceed nine percent (9%)
per year, and if the Bonds bear
interest at more than one rate per
year, then the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed nine percent (9%)
per year. Interest on the Bonds
shall be payable, until the principal
amount is paid, semi-annually on
February 1 and August 1 of each
year or on the first day of each of
two months specified in the Certificate of Award as the dates on
which interest on the Bonds shall
be payable (the “Interest Payment
Dates”), beginning February 1, 1998
or on such other Interest Payment
Date specified in the Certificate of
Award as the first Interest Payment
Date.
The Bonds shall mature on August
1 in twenty (20) substantially equal
annual
installments,
beginning
August 1, 1998, or according to the
schedule set forth in the Certificate
of Award, provided that (i) each
principal payment shall occur on an
Interest Payment Date (hereinafter
defined), (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier than January 1, 1998 and no later
than August 1, 1999, (iii) the final
maturity date of the Bonds shall be
no later than twenty (20) years from
the first principal payment date, and
(iv) the principal amount thereof
shall be payable in annual installments such that the total principal
and interest payments on the Bonds
in any fiscal year in which principal
is payable is not more than three
times the amount of those payments
in any other fiscal year.

36
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the
“Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption prior to stated maturity
as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent
for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include
amounts
sufficient
to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent of
the principal amount thereof against
the then current Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirement (and
corresponding mandatory redemp-

The City Record
tion obligation). Any excess of that
amount
over
the
then
current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement shall be credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole on any
date, or in part on any Interest Payment Date, on the dates and for the
prices specified in the Certificate of
Award, or the Director of Finance
may determine that it is in the best
interests of the City for the Bonds
not to be callable prior to their stated maturity. In the event that the
Bonds are callable, the earliest date
for optional redemption shall be no
later than the tenth anniversary of
the first principal payment date and
the maximum redemption price shall
be no greater than 102% of the principal amount redeemed, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar, given upon the direction
of the Council of the City by passage of an ordinance. That notice
shall specify the redemption date
and the principal amount of each
maturity of Bonds to be redeemed,
and shall be given at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the redemption
date or such shorter period as shall
be acceptable to the Registrar. In
the event that notice of redemption
shall have been given by the Registrar to the registered owners as
hereinafter provided, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, funds
which, in addition to any other moneys available therefor and held by
the Registrar, will be sufficient to
redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus interest accrued to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice
of redemption has been given.
(c) Partial Redemption. If fewer
than all of the outstanding Bonds
are called for redemption at one
time, they shall be called in the
order of maturities directed by the
Director of Finance. If fewer than
all Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed, or portions
thereof in amounts of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, shall be
made by the Registrar by lot in a
manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of a partial redemption of Bonds by lot when Bonds of
denominations greater than $5,000
are then outstanding, each $5,000
unit of principal thereof shall be
treated as though it were a separate
Bond of the denomination of $5,000.
If it is determined that one or more,
but not all of the $5,000 units of
principal amount represented by a
Bond are to be called for redemption, then upon notice of redemption
of a $5,000 unit or units, the registered owner of that Bond shall sur-

736

May 21, 1997
render the Bond to the Registrar (i)
for payment of the redemption price
of the $5,000 unit or units called for
redemption (including, without limitation, the interest accrued to the
date fixed for redemption and any
premium), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the same
rate and maturing on the same date
as, the Bond surrendered.
(d) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close
of business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing. Failure to
receive notice by mail or any defect
in that notice regarding any Bond,
however, shall not affect the validity
of
the
proceedings
for
the
redemption of any Bond.
(e) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph hereof, the Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
interest
accrued to the redemption date. If
money for the redemption of all of
the Bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest
accrued thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and, if
notice
of
redemption
has
been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
that money shall not be so available
on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent.
Principal
shall
be
payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the

May 21, 1997
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
fifteenth day of the calendar month
next preceding that Interest Payment
Date
(the
Record
Date).
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond Ordinance,
so long as the Bonds are held by a
Depository in a book entry system
(as described in Section 3), debt
charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on each Interest Payment
Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance is hereby adopted by reference, and, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) of the
General Bond Ordinance (pertaining
generally to an adjustment of the
interest rate in an event of default)
and the third paragraph of Section
4 of the General Bond Ordinance
(pertaining generally to the periods
during
which
the
City
is
not
required to make any transfers or
exchanges of bonds issued under the
General Bond Ordinance), which are
not included in this Ordinance and
will not apply to the Bonds, the General Bond Ordinance is included as
a part of this Ordinance as fully as
if restated herein. Words and terms
not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning as set forth
in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents. The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee.
The Bonds shall be signed by the
City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor and
by the City’s Director of Finance or
Acting Director of Finance; provided, however, that in accordance with
Section 9.96 of the Code and the foregoing requirement that each Bond
bear the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or Acting Mayor or
of its Director of Finance or Acting
Director of Finance may be a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear the
seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section
83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law or Acting Director of
Law shall prepare the Bonds and
shall endorse thereon his or her
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his or her manual or facsimile signature.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the Registrar); provided that
the Escrow Agent shall also act as
paying agent for the Bonds so long
as the Bonds are held in a book
entry
system.
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
the Registrar Agreement among the
City, the Registrar and the Escrow

The City Record
Agent (the Agreement) in substantially the form as is now on file
with the Clerk of Council in File No.
925-97-A.
The
Agreement
is
approved,
together
with
any
changes or amendments that are not
inconsistent with this ordinance and
not substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Agreement or amendments to the
Agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Agreement from the
proceeds of the Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the Bond Register).
Subject to the provisions of Section
5, the person in whose name a Bond
is registered on the Bond Register
shall be regarded as the absolute
owner of that Bond for all purposes
of this ordinance. Payment of or on
account of the debt charges on any
Bond shall be made only to or upon
the order of that person; neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid. Any Bond may be exchanged
for Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate
trust office of the Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. A Bond may be transferred
only on the Bond Register upon presentation and surrender of the Bond
at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar together with
an assignment signed by the registered owner or by a person legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City

737

37
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository

38
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds. The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by such
Trustees, shall be offered to the
Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased by
such Account, shall be sold to
Lehman Brothers, Merrill, Lynch &
Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co.,
Inc., and SBK-Brooks Investment
Corp. (collectively, the “Original
Purchaser”); provided, however, that
if, in the reasonable opinion of the
Director of Finance, an underwriter
is incapable of fully performing its
duties or meeting its obligations in
its capacity as Original Purchaser
with respect to the Bonds, the Director of Finance is hereby authorized
and directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever actions may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser.
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance and the Original
Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Bonds as set forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement, including: the
principal amount of the Bonds, final
purchase price (which shall be not
less than 97% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate
or rates, the amounts and years in
which principal installments are
payable (at stated maturity or pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption
Requirements),
the
Interest Payment Dates and the
date of the Bonds (if different from
those set forth in Section 2) and any
other matters required in this Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. If it is determined advisable
by the Director of Finance for the
sale of the Bonds, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign agreements with a municipal bond insurer issuing a policy of municipal
bond insurance for the Bonds that
are not materially inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Mayor, Director
of Finance, Director of Law and
other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, authorized and directed to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate and in the best interest of the
City to establish the terms and
requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, and proce-

The City Record
dure, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser,
to
give
all
appropriate
notices and certificates, to cause a
true transcript or proceedings with
reference to the issuance of the
Bonds to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary to effect the due execution,
authentication and delivery of the
Bonds. The Mayor and the Director
of Finance are, and each of them is,
hereby
further
authorized
and
directed to execute and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement
(the
“Bond
Purchase
Agreement”), approved as to form
and correctness by the Director of
Law, between the City and the Original Purchaser setting forth the
terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Bonds,
provided that such agreement shall
not provide for or require the terms
of the Bonds to be inconsistent with
this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement is approved substantially in the form now on the file with
the Clerk of Council in File No. 92597-A, together with any changes or
amendments that are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement. It is hereby determined
that the terms of the Bonds, as provided in this Ordinance and as may
be provided in or pursuant to the
Certificate of Award, are in the best
interest of the City and in compliance with all legal requirements.
If, in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, a disclosure document in the form of an
Official Statement is appropriate or
necessary in connection with the
original issuance of the Bonds, those
officers in their official capacities
are authorized to prepare or cause
to be prepared on behalf of the City
an Official Statement and any necessary supplements thereto, and on
behalf of the City to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, that Official Statement
and any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of
the Bonds, and each of those officers is authorized to sign on behalf
of the City and in his or her official
capacity, that Official Statement and
any supplements thereto approved
by such officer. Those officers are
and each of them is authorized to
sign and deliver, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of the Official Statement and any supplements thereto
as may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Such officers
are also hereby authorized to determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document
is “deemed final” by the City within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”).
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Bonds, the City agrees, in
accordance with, and as the only

738

May 21, 1997
obligated person with respect to the
Bonds under, the SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s
continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Mayor and the
Director of Finance are authorized
and directed to prepare, or cause to
be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds in accordance
with the Rule. The performance of
that Agreement shall be subject to
the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs
the City would be required to incur
to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds
with other bonds into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of their sale as a single issue to
be designated “Various Purpose General Obligation Bonds, Series 1997”.
Such bonds shall contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for which the
Bonds are issued and shall state
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. For the purpose
of providing the necessary funds to
pay the interest on the Bonds
promptly when and as the same
falls due, and also to provide for the
discharge of the Bonds at maturity,
there shall be and is hereby levied
on all the taxable property in the
City, in addition to all other taxes,
a direct tax annually during the
period the Bonds are outstanding, in
an amount sufficient to provide for
the payment of that interest, when
and as the same shall fall due, and
also to discharge the principal of
the Bonds at maturity, which tax
shall not be less than the interest
and sinking fund tax required by
Section 11 of Article XII of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of those years are certified, extended and collected. The
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds

May 21, 1997
derived from the tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund as provided pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Bonds when and as the same
fall due; provided, however, that,
subject to the provisions of Section
8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the
Bonds and are appropriated for such
purpose, the amount of such tax
shall be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25 and 5705.51 of the
Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds
are issued. Accrued interest and any
premium received from the sale of
the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account of the Sinking Fund to be
applied to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation. The
Bonds are secured by a pledge and
lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and
agreements provided hereunder and
in the General Bond Ordinance to
secure payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds, the City
hereby determines, declares, warrants and covenants that the Bonds
are general obligations of the City
and that the full faith and credit of
the City are hereby pledged for the
payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds in accordance
with the laws and Constitution of
the State of Ohio, this Ordinance and
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.

The City Record
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purposes set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed One Million One Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($1,150,000) (the “Notes”) upon
the direction of the Director of
Finance to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of
the Notes and the sale of the Notes
and signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
Section 10. Term of the Notes. The
Notes: shall bear interest at such
rate, not exceeding nine per cent
(9%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall
be
dated
their
date
of
issuance; shall mature on the date

739

39
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior
to maturity without penalty, provided that, if the Director of Finance,
based on the advice of the financial
advisor of the City, determines that
it is in the best interest of the City
in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not
be redeemable for a period which
ends no later than the date which is
two (2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated “Residential Areas Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes,
Series 1997”; shall be issued in such
numbers and denominations as may
be requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form
(which may be in a book entry only
system) in denominations of $5,000
or integral multiples thereof. Interest shall be payable semi-annually
on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that
if the Notes mature on or before the
end of the twelfth (12th) month following their date of issuance, interest on the Notes shall be payable at
maturity.
Star Bank, National Association, is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
Registrar);
provided
that
the
Escrow Agent also shall act as paying agent for the Notes so long as
the Notes are held in a book entry
system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Registrar
and the Escrow Agent (the Note
Registrar Agreement) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes. The Director of Finance shall
provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Note Registrar Agreement
from the proceeds of the Notes to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Registrar to maintain and keep at
its principal corporate trust office
all books and records necessary for
the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes as provided in this Section (the Note Register). Subject to
the provisions of Section 5, the person in whose name a Note is registered on the Note Register shall be
regarded as the absolute owner of
that Note for all purposes of this
ordinance. Payment of or on account
of the debt charges on any Note
shall be made only to or upon the
order of that person; neither the City
nor the Registrar shall be affected
by any notice to the contrary, but
the registration may be changed as
provided in this Section. All such
payments shall be valid and effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Note, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in

40
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Note may be transferred only on
the Note Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Note at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Note or Notes of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Note
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Pursuant
to
Section
133.30(B),
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes
with other bond anticipation notes
of the City into a single consolidated issue of bonds for purposes of
their sale as a single issue to be
designated “Various Purpose General
Obligation
Bond
Anticipation
Notes, Series 1997”. The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Notes are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
be executed by the Director of
Finance and the Mayor, provided
that one of such signatures may be
a facsimile. Such Notes shall express
upon their face the purpose for
which they are issued and that they
are issued pursuant to this ordinance, and may be payable in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America if requested by
the Note Purchaser.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall be sold at private sale
to the Note Purchaser by the Director of Finance in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate
of Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section
10 hereof. The Notes shall be sold to
Lehman Brothers, Merrill, Lynch &
Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
SBK-Brooks Investment Corp., and
Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc.
(the “Note Purchaser”). The proceeds of such sale shall be paid into
the proper fund and used for the

The City Record
purpose for which the Notes are
being issued under the provisions of
this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Bonds and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax. During the year
or years while the Notes are outstanding there shall be levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes but within tax limitations, a direct tax annually not less than that which would
have been levied if bonds had been
issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes.
Said tax shall be and is hereby
ordered computed, certified, levied
and extended upon the tax duplicate
and collected by the same officers,
in the same manner and at the same
time that taxes for general purposes for each of said year are certified, extended and collected. Said
tax shall be placed before and in
preference to all other items and for
the full amount thereof. The funds
derived from said tax levies hereby
required shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, which, together with the
interest collected on the same, shall
be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of
the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment
of the Notes and Bonds and are
appropriated for such purpose, the
amount of such direct tax upon all
of the taxable property in the City
may be reduced by the amount of
such revenues so available and
appropriated.
Section 15. Preparation of Disclosure Document for the Notes. The
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to prepare, execute and deliver to the Note Purchaser, to the
extent required by law, a preliminary and final Official Statement or
any other appropriate disclosure
document of the City in accordance
with the sale and delivery of the
Notes, and to deem such disclosure
document “final” for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.

740

May 21, 1997
Section 17. Captions. The captions
or headings in this Ordinance are
for convenience only and in no way
define, limit or describe the scope or
intent of any provisions or sections
of this Ordinance.
Section
18.
Federal
Tax
Covenants. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and (b) it
will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(c) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (i)
apply the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict
the yield on investment property
acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or

May 21, 1997
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this Ordinance were
passed in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action, were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 20. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make then legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections
28, 29, 32, 33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to
readings on three separate days or
dispensing with such readings by a
two-thirds vote of all members of
the Council), 36, 37, 48 and all other
applicable provisions of the City’s
Charter and the rules of this Council have been fully complied with
and this Ordinance was passed in
conformity therewith.
Section 21. Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
hereby authorized and directed to
forward a certified copy of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the County
Auditor of Cuyahoga County and to
secure a receipt therefor.
Section 22. Severability. Each section and each part of each section
of this Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an independent section or part
of a section and, notwithstanding
any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be
the controlling legislative intent
that if any such section or part of
a section or any provision thereof,
or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance, is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or

The City Record
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than
those as to which it is held invalid,
shall not be affected thereby, and it
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Ordinance would have
been passed independently of such
section, or parts of a section, so held
to be invalid.
Section 23. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this
Ordinance are made by the voluntary act of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its Charter and Article
XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 24. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements which are urgently needed
for the benefit of the City and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department, and, provided
this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. 926-97.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and
located
at
7215
Lexington
Avenue, 7211 Lexington Avenue and
7207 Lexington Avenue to Vernesha
and Ronald Boone.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio, Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinances constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usually daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Sup-

741

41
plies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-16-030. 10616-031 and 106-16-032, as more fully
described in Section 2 below, to Vernesha and Ronald Boone.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 106-16-030
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
14 in Thomas Bolton Estates Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 339 and 342, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 22 of Maps, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Northerly side of
Lexington Avenue N.E., and extending back 149.53 feet on the Westerly line, 149.58 feet on the Easterly
line and having a rear line of 40
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 106-16-031
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
15 in the Thomas Bolton Estate’s
Subdivision of part of Original 100
Acre Lot No. 339 and 342, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 22
of Maps, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40 feet front
on the Northerly side of Lexington
Avenue and extending back 149.49
feet on the Westerly line, 149.53 feet
on the Easterly line and having a
rear line of 40 feet, as appears by
said plat.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 106-16-032
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublot No. 16 in the Thos. Bolton
Subdivision of part of Original
Township Lot No. 342 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 22 of
Maps, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County
Records, said Sublot has a frontage
of 40 feet on the Northerly side of
Lexington Avenue and extending
back 149.49 feet on the Easterly line,
149.44 feet on the Westerly line, and
having a rear line of 40 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the

42
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred
to
Directors
of
Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 927-97.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1877, 1881, 1887 East
81 Street to David and Julianna
Leach.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio, Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinances constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usually daily operation
of a municipal department; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-01-065, 11901-066, and 119-01-067, as more fully
described in Section 2 below, to
David and Julianna Leach.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 119-01-065
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
399, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 81st Street, (formerly Princeton
Street), at the Northwesterly corner
of a second parcel of land conveyed
to Virgin G. Marani by deed dated
September 16, 1913, and recorded in
Volume 1471, Page 622 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Northerly
along the Easterly line of East 81st
Street, 40 feet to the Northerly line
of land conveyed to Carrie L.
Holmes, by deed dated May 1, 1884,
and recorded in Volume 381, Page
492 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence Easterly along the Southerly
line of land conveyed to Carrie L.
Holmes, as aforesaid, about 83 feet

The City Record
to the Northwesterly corner of land
conveyed to William C. Boyle by
deed dated October 16, 1903 and
recorded in Volume 902, Page 377 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
land conveyed to William C. Boyle,
as aforesaid, 40 feet; thence Westerly along the Northerly line of land
conveyed to Virgil G. Marani, as
aforesaid, about 83 feet to the place
of beginning, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
P.P. No. 119-01-066
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
399, as bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 81st Street, (formerly Princeton
Street), at the Southwesterly corner
of the first parcel of land conveyed
to Virgil G. Marani by deed dated
September 16, 1913, and recorded in
Volume 1471, Page 622 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Southerly
along the Easterly line of East 81st
Street, 40 feet to the Northerly line
of land conveyed to Mrs. Jane R.
Griffin by deed dated September 18,
1871, and recorded in Volume 192,
Page
328
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of land conveyed to
Mrs. Jane R. Griffin, as aforesaid,
about 83 feet to the Southwesterly
corner of land conveyed to Samuel
H. Holding by deed dated October
22, 1903 and recorded in Volume 910,
Page
96
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Northerly along the
Westerly line of land conveyed to
Samuel H. Holding, as aforesaid and
along the Westerly line of land conveyed to William G. Boyle by deed
dated October 16, 1903, and recorded
in Volume 902, Page 377 of Cuyahoga County Records, 40 feet; thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of
land conveyed to Virgil G. Marani,
as aforesaid, about 83 feet to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P.P. No. 119-01-067
Situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and
State of Ohio, and known as being
part of Original 100 Acre Lot No.
399 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at a stake on the Easterly line of East 81st Street, (formerly Princeton Street), distant 526
feet, (measured along the Easterly
line of said street), from the intersection of said Easterly line with
the Northerly line of said Original
Lot No. 399; thence Easterly along
the Northerly line of land conveyed
to Charles N. Schmick by deed
recorded in Volume 718, Page 586 of
Cuyahoga County Records, 83 15/100
feet to a stake; thence Southerly
parallel with the Easterly line of
East
82nd
Street,
(formerly
Genessee Avenue), 50 feet to a
stake on the Southerly line of land
conveyed as aforesaid; thence Westerly along the Southerly line, 82
97/100 feet to a stake on the Easterly line of East 81st Street; thence
Northerly along said Easterly line
of East 81st Street, 50 feet to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall

742

May 21, 1997
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred
to
Directors
of
Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 928-97.
By Councilmen Johnson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
contract of one sweeper, for the
Division
of
Parking
Facilities,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for each or all of the
following items: one (1) sweeper,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division
of Parking Facilities, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 65 SF 001,
Request No. 20244.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation,
Finance.

The City Record

May 21, 1997
Ord. No. 929-97.
By Councilmen Jackson, Johnson
and Westbrook (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept a grant from the State
of Ohio, Department of Natural
Resources for the 1997 Natureworks
Program; determining the method of
making the public improvement of
rehabilitating Lonnie Burten R.C.
Park and authorizing the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
to enter into contract with the making of such improvement, payable
from the grant proceeds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to apply for and
accept a grant from the State of
Ohio,
Department
of
Natural
Resources, for the 1997 Natureworks
Program, for the purposes set forth
in the application and according

43

thereto; that the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 929-97-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten herein, is hereby approved in all respects,
including the obligation of the City
of Cleveland to provide twenty-five
percent (25%) of the total project
cost from Fund No. 20 SF 323.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement
of
rehabilitating
Lonnie
Burten R.C. Park for the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, by contract duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding upon a unit basis
for the improvement.
Section 4. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized and directed to
enter into contract for the making
of the above public improvement

with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement, provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 5. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from the grant proceeds pursuant to Section 1 of this
ordinance and cash from matching
funds committed pursuant to Section
2 of this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.

Ord. No. 930-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Finance to pay as Moral Claims the sums
herein set forth opposite the names of the claimants.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Finance is hereby authorized and directed to pay as Moral Claims the sums set
forth opposite and names of the following claimants and charged against the fund numbers opposite the names
of the claimants:
Claimant
Products Chemical Co.

Claim No.
10252

|||||Amount
$2,000.00

Division
Water Pollution
Control
Water Pollution
Control
Water Pollution
Control
Water Pollution
Control
Water Pollution
Control
Water Pollution
Control
Water Pollution
Control

Rufus Biggins

10260

1,500.00

The Bernard Group

10261

1,200.00

Mike McAfee

10277

125.00

Wayne Abarca

10285

369.69

Gil Gotlieb

10295A

120.00

West 6 Street
Limited Partnership

10301A

2,000.00

Sixth Street Under
Jazz Club

10301B

6,000.00

Water Pollution
Control

Clarence Welch
Lonnie Robinson
CNAC
Mary S. Clark
Abdel Hamid Abdalla
John Coppage
B & K Scaffolding
Edward McGuinty
Karen Piasecki
Christopher Smith
Dominic Bey
Alfred Wolf
Dan Llewellyn

10221
10235
10235
10242
10254
10258
10269
10279
10311A
10311B
10327
10259
10304

76.00
436.86
550.00
28.00
500.00
250.00
3,840.08
60.00
609.04
500.00
1,224.69
250.00
896.00

Eddie Lee Reid

10197

500.00

Cleveland Electric
Illuminating Co.
Doris Frisco

10263

146.00

10290

560.00

Police
Police
Police
Police
Police
Police
Police
Police
Police
Police
Police
Fire
Emergency
Medical Service
Park Maintenance
and Properties
Park Maintenance
and Properties
Park Maintenance
and Properties

743

Fund
54 SF 001
54 SF 001
54 SF 001
54 SF 001
54 SF 001
54 SF 001
54 SF 001
54 SF 001
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-02-0720
01-60-03-0720
01-60-04-0720
01-70-10-0720
01-70-10-0720
01-70-10-0720

The City Record

44
Claimant
Sophia J. Takos

Claim No.
10328

|||||Amount
235.77

Gregory Eskridge

10240

92.00

Avco Financial
Service Loan, Inc.

10264

3,500.00

Mary Nero
Trina Struble
Committed Services

10306
10211
10134

15.00
500.00
330.00

Martin Landau

10276

750.00

May 21, 1997
Division
Park Maintenance
and Properties
Municipal Clerk
of Courts
Building &
Housing
Streets
Waste Collection
Cleveland Hopkins
Airport
Cleveland Hopkins
Airport

Fund
01-70-10-0720
01-01-16-0720
01-80-05-0720
10 SF401
01-40-03-0720
60 SF 001
60 SF 001

Section 2. That the authority of the Director of Finance to pay the amounts set forth in Section 1 of this ordinance is conditioned upon a City-approved written acceptance by the claimant of the City’s offer to pay this
claim within six months from the effective date of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 931-97.
By Councilmen Smith, Rybka and
Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating taxiway/taxilane “J”, the south
cargo ramp and associated appurtenances at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, and authorizing
the Director of Port Control to enter
into contract for the making of such
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating taxiway/taxilane “J”, the south cargo ramp and
associated appurtenances, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control, by contract duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding for a gross price for
the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
and directed to enter into contract
for the making of the above public
improvement
with
the
lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding for a gross price for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
Upon request of said director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of said improvement.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF
106, 60 SF 257, 60 SF 001, and from
any funds or subfunds to which are
credited any federal grants or federal
PFC
authorization
for
the
above improvement and the proceeds from the sale of any airport
revenue bonds issued for a purpose
which includes the above improvement, Request No. 22504.

Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect
and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the
Mayor;
otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 932-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources to
enter into contract with Applied
Benefits Research, Inc. dba COBRASERV for professional services
necessary to administer the City’s
COBRA program for the Department
of Personnel and
Human
Resources.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
hereby authorized and directed to
enter into contract with Applied
Benefits
Research,
Inc.
dba
COBRASERV for professional services necessary to administer the
City’s COBRA program on the basis
of its proposal dated March 26,
1997.
Section 2. That the costs for
such services shall be paid from
Fund No. 01-04-02-0324, Request No.
20226.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measiire and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

744

Ord. No. 933-97.
By Mayor White and Councilmen
Westbrook and Willis.
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Sections 670B.01 to 670B.07 and
670B.99 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended and enacted by various ordinances; to supplement said codified
ordinances by enacting new Sections
670B.01 to 670B.08 and 670B.99 thereof, relating to outdoor pay telephones.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following Sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
Section 670B.01, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 2159-92, passed June
14, 1993, as renumbered by Ordinance No. 1545-93, passed July 14,
1993
Sections 670B.02, 670B.03, 670B.04,
670B.05, and 670B.06, as amended by
Ordinance No. 90-96, passed March
18, 1996,
Section 670B.07, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 2159-92, passed June
14, 1993, as renumbered by Ordinance No. 1545-93, passed July 14,
1993
Section 670B.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 90-96, passed March
18, 1996
are hereby, respectively, repealed.
Section 2. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Sections 670B.01 to 670B.08 and
670B.99 thereof to read, respectively,
as follows:
CHAPTER 670B
OUTDOOR PAY TELEPHONES

Section 670B.01 Definitions
As used in this chapter:
(a) “Director” means the Director
of Finance or the Director’s designee.
(b) “Commissioner” means the
Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses or the Commissioner’s designee.
(c)
“Outdoor
Pay
Telephone”
means any self-service, coin-operated, credit card-operated or other similar telephone which is available
outdoors for use by the general public.

May 21, 1997
“Outdoor
pay
telephone”
shall
include
outdoor
pay
telephone
booths and stands, outdoor pay telephone drive-up and walk-up units,
and outdoor pay telephones which
are affixed to the exterior walls of
a building or structure.
(d) “Owner” means a person in
whom is vested ownership, dominion, control or title of an outdoor
pay telephone.
(e) “Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company, organization
or legal entity of any kind.
(f) “Public Property” means all
City-owned property, and does not
include the right-of-way of the City
or property owned by a person other
than the City.
(g) “Public right-of-way” means
any way which has been deeded to
the public or dedicated to the public use for pedestrian or vehicular
travel, and does not include public
property or property owned by a person other than the City.
(h) “Private property” means any
property other than the public rightof-way or public property.
(i) “PUCO” means the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio.
(j) “Special telephone service features” include the blocking of incoming calls to a telephone, installation
of rotary telephones or telephones
that do not permit “touch tone” dialing, restricting coin access to a telephone during late evening and night
hours, and such other service features as are acceptable to the Director.
(k) For the purposes of this chapter, unless otherwise specified, any
distance requirement shall be measured from the starting point outward in every direction along the
City’s
right-of-way
and
on
the
parcels
immediately
along
such
right-of-way, but such measurements
shall
not
continue
beyond
any
human made or natural physical
barrier that prevents pedestrian and
vehicular traffic from continuing in
that direction, nor shall such measurement continue across a rear lot
line of a parcel.
Section 670B.02 Prohibitions on
Placement: Location Requirements
(a) No person shall install, place
or maintain an outdoor pay telephone within the public right-of-way
unless the owner of the telephone
has entered into a contract with the
Director that grants to such owner
the privilege of installing and maintaining the outdoor pay telephone in
the public right-of-way. This prohibition applies to any outdoor pay
telephone installed prior to or after
the effective date of this ordinance.
This prohibition applies to any outdoor pay telephone that is attached
to or mounted on a building or other
structure
when
such
telephone
extends above or into the right-ofway. This prohibition also applies to
any outdoor pay telephone that is
located in the right-of-way and is
attached to a building or structure
by a wire or cable. All contracts
entered into by the Director for the
installation, placement or maintenance of outdoor pay telephones
within the public right-of-way shall
be in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
(b) No person shall engage in the
business of providing and installing
outdoor pay telephones on private
property in the City, and no person
shall install, place or maintain an
outdoor pay telephone on private
property unless the owner has a

The City Record
biennial
outdoor
pay
telephone
license, and a biennial permit for
each telephone installed, placed or
maintained, issued in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any
person to install, own or maintain,
or to allow the installation or maintenance of, an outdoor pay telephone
on private property or the public
right-of-way under any of the following circumstances:
(1) On any vacant land other than
a public park;
(2) On any property where there
is a vacant building;
(3) On any property which has a
premises licensed for the sale of
alcoholic liquor (other than beer or
wine);
(4) In a residential use district;
(5) At a location within 500 feet
of a residential dwelling unit;
(6) At a location where use from
a vehicle is possible which would
cause the vehicle to stand in a driveway or aisle in a parking lot or in
the right-of-way;
(7) On any property or at any
location which has been determined
by the Director of Public Safety to
create a nuisance based upon prior
actual use; and
(8) Unless such telephone provides outgoing only service.
(d) Any outdoor pay telephone
placed or installed on private property after the effective date of this
ordinance shall be a so-called “smart
phone” equipped with a built in computer and have the capability to
make the telephone inoperative for
designated periods of time, to provide lists of each outgoing call as
to the number called, its duration,
and the date and time of the call, to
restrict pagers and beepers, shall
have built in volume control and
shall have a key pad that prevents
the use of pagers or beepers. Any
outdoor pay telephone located on
private property on the effective
date of this ordinance is required to
have such capabilities within two
years of the effective date of this
ordinance; however, any such telephone may not be replaced or moved
to a new location unless it has such
capabilities.
(e) No more than one pay telephone shall be placed or installed on
private property within 1,000 feet of
any other pay telephone on private
property. Pay telephones installed
on private property prior to the date
of the introduction of this ordinance
shall be excepted from the requirements of this specific prohibition for
one year after the introduction of
this ordinance; however, no telephone
may
be
moved,
placed,
replaced or installed after the date
of the introduction of this ordinance
unless it complies with this provision, and telephones on private property that were not registered as of
the date of introduction of this ordinance or that have been ordered
removed as a nuisance are not
excepted from the requirements of
this section. At the end of one year
after the date of introduction of this
ordinance, if any telephones on private property are not in compliance
with the distance requirements of
this division, the Director shall
order the removal of telephones
based upon the total period of time
that a telephone was registered with
the City pursuant to the requirements of the City’s ordinances in
effect prior to this ordinance, with
the telephones registered for the
least amount of time being ordered

745

45
to be removed first, until all remaining telephones are in compliance
with the distance requirements.
(f) For the purposes of this section, the submission of a completed
application for a permit for a telephone on private property, or the
submission of written notification to
the Director, pursuant to an executed contract with the City of the
intent of the owner to install a telephone in the right-of-way, shall be
considered a placement of a pay
telephone.
(g) Any outdoor pay telephone
placed or installed after the date of
the introduction of this ordinance,
and all other outdoor pay telephones
within one year of the effective date
of this ordinance, shall be located as
follows:
(1) On private property, no closer
than 5 feet from any public sidewalk, as measured from the edge of
the sidewalk to the closest point on
the telephone;
(2) On private property or the
right-of-way, not within 5 feet of
any area used for parking, as a
driveway, or an area used for vehicular travel; however, this restriction
does not apply if the telephone is
located in a clear zone consisting of
an area around the telephone from
which vehicles are excluded and
extending at least 5 feet in each
direction from the telephone; such a
clear zone must be demarcated by
vehicular barriers of wood, metal or
masonry bollards installed in the
ground, which are at least 4 inches
in diameter and 3 feet in height,
with a maximum spacing of 5 feet;
one opening in a clear zone is permitted of not more than 10 feet
closed by a removable chain for
necessary access to the telephone;
no vehicular barriers are required
along a public sidewalk if vehicular
access is otherwise prevented by
barriers; and barriers other than bollards may be permitted by the Director of the City Planning Commission
if such barriers are equally effective
to the purposes of this section and
are appropriate in design, as determined by the Director of Planning;
(3) No telephone shall be located
to impede ingress or egress from
any structure, nor located within 10
feet of a fire exit or escape;
(4) No telephone shall be located
in any manner that hinders or
restricts access to a mail box, parking meter, police or fire call box,
traffic control box, fire hydrant or
sidewalk elevator, or that blocks or
restricts free passage of pedestrians
or vehicles;
(5) No telephone shall be located
on any sidewalk less than 10 feet in
width, nor within 10 feet of a crosswalk.
Section 670B.03 Contracts with
Outdoor
Pay
Telephone
Owners:
Public Right-of-Way
(a) The Director shall have the
authority to enter into contracts that
grant to one or more owners the
privilege of installing and maintaining outdoor pay telephones in
the public right-of-way, subject to
the terms and conditions set forth in
the contract and this Chapter. The
Director shall enter into these contracts through the use of competitive proposals, with the selection to
be made by Council upon nomination of the Director. The competitive
process to select an owner or owners to install telephones in the rightof-way shall be conducted within 120
days of the effective date of this
ordinance.

46
(b) Any contract entered into pursuant to division (a) of this section
must include as terms and conditions
at a minimum all of the requirements of this chapter applicable to
pay telephones in the right-of-way;
however, the City may impose additional requirements and restrictions
on pay telephones in the right-ofway in the contract with an owner.
(c) Any owner with pay telephones in the right-of-way who is
not selected by the City to enter a
contract for the installation of telephones in the right-of-way shall
remove all pay telephones from the
right-of-way within 30 days after the
approval by Council of an owner or
owners nominated by the Director.
Any telephone located in the rightof-way that is not part of a contract
with the City may be removed by
the City without prior notice at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall
reimburse the City for the cost of
removing and storing the telephone
before
the
telephone
may
be
reclaimed by the owner. Such costs
shall also include the cost of removing any installation ancillary to the
outdoor pay telephone and the cost
of restoring the public right-of-way
to its original condition.
(d) The owner or owners selected
by the City to install telephones in
the right-of-way shall submit a written request to the Director for
approval to place, install and maintain each telephone. The Director
shall notify in writing, the Director
of Public Safety, the Director of
Public Service and the member of
Council in whose ward the telephone will be located of the proposed
placement,
installation
or
maintenance of the telephone and
inquire
whether
these
officials
know of any reason why the placement, installation and maintenance
of the outdoor pay telephone should
not be approved. These officials
shall notify the Director in writing
of any objections to such installation of an outdoor pay telephone
within
ten
business
days
after
receiving such notification.
(e) The Director shall approve the
location of any outdoor pay telephone to be installed and maintained pursuant to the contract. In
determining whether to approve the
installation and maintenance of an
outdoor pay telephone at a particular location the Director shall follow
the prohibitions and requirements of
Section 670B.02 and consider the following factors:
(1) Possible obstruction of pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
(2) The existence of or lack of
other pay telephones in the vicinity
of the proposed location in the rightof-way, or on public or private property;
(3) The size of the telephone and
any booth stand, or pole accompanying the telephone;
(4) The ability to provide access
to the outdoor pay telephone by disabled persons;
(5) The proliferation of visual
clutter if the outdoor pay telephone
is installed in the proposed location;
and
(6) Such other factors as are
delineated in the contract.
(f) A telephone approved for
installation in the right-of-way shall
be installed within 30 days of the
approval, or the approval shall be
considered void and no longer effective.
(g) Any outdoor pay telephone
installed and maintained in accordance with the contract must:

The City Record
(1) Be well lighted at all times;
(2) Must allow a “direct dial” of
911 without the need to first use a
coin or a credit card or the need to
dial the operator;
(3)
Have
a
functioning
coin
return mechanism;
(4) Have affixed in a readily visible place a notice setting forth the
name of the owner, the owner’s telephone number for repair and the
telephone number or serial number
of the outdoor pay telephone;
(5) Be maintained in a properly
functioning, clean, neat and attractive condition, free of rust and free
of danger of electrical shock;
(6) Not be used for advertising
signs or publicity of any sort; and
(7) Be in full compliance with all
state and federal laws and regulations, including this chapter.
(h) The owner of each outdoor
pay telephone shall hold the City
harmless from any and all liability,
for any reason whatsoever, occasioned upon the installation and use
of such telephone, other than liability arising from any negligent act
or omission which is solely attributable to the City, and shall furnish,
at said owner’s expense, such general commercial liability insurance
as shall protect said owner and the
City from all claims for damage to
property or bodily injury, including
death, which may arise from installation, maintenance and operation of
the telephone or in connection therewith. Such policy shall name the
City as an additional insured, shall
be in an amount to be determined
by the Director but not less than one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
combined single limit for any injury
to persons and/or damage to property, and shall provide that the
insurance coverage shall not be canceled or reduced by the insurance
carrier without thirty (30) days’
prior written notice to the City. A
certificate of such insurance shall
be provided to the Director at the
time of execution of the contract
and shall be maintained before and
during the installation of any telephone in accordance with the contract and throughout the period that
the contract for any telephone is in
effect.
(i) Any outdoor pay telephone
installed or maintained in violation
of the contract and the requirements
of this chapter shall be subject to
an order issued by the Director of
immediate removal at the owner’s
expense. The owner shall remove
the
outdoor
pay
telephone
and
restore the public right-of-way to its
original condition. Any outdoor pay
telephone which is not removed
within five (5) business days of an
order to remove the telephone shall
be subject to immediate removal by
the City at the owner’s expense and
shall constitute a default of the
owner’s contract. The owner must
reimburse the City for the cost of
removing and storing the telephone
before
the
telephone
may
be
reclaimed by the owner. Such costs
shall also include the cost of removing any installation ancillary to the
outdoor pay telephone and the cost
of restoring the public right-of-way
or public property to its original
condition. Any owner of an outdoor
pay telephone who has defaulted on
its contract with the City, will not
be allowed to install another outdoor pay telephone in the public
right-of-way in the same location for
a period of two years after the telephone is removed. This section is in
addition to and does not prohibit

746

May 21, 1997
other
contract
terms
regarding
default and termination of a contract with the City.
Section 670B.04 Biennial Outdoor
Pay Telephone License Required
(a) Prior to engaging in the business of installing, placing and maintaining outdoor pay telephones on
private property in the City after
the effective date of this ordinance,
and biennially thereafter, a person
shall submit an application for a
license, or the renewal of a license,
to the Commissioner upon forms to
be prescribed by the Commissioner.
The application shall include the
following information:
(1) The name, address, telephone
number and federal tax identification or social security number of the
person;
(2) The name, address and telephone number of the individual or
other persons to whom the City
shall serve in person or by mail any
order required by Section 670B.05;
(3) An affidavit that the business
will be and remain in compliance
with all relevant City, State and federal laws and regulations and this
Chapter;
(4) A disclosure of any violations,
or license or permit suspensions or
revocations, involving the business
or licensee, with regard to pay telephone laws and regulations in other
jurisdictions in which the business
or licensee conducts a pay telephone
business;
(5) Any other information as the
Commissioner deems necessary to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
(b) One license application may
be submitted regardless of the number of outdoor pay telephones the
owner has or will be installed. The
application for and the issuance of
a license do not authorize the person to install, place or maintain any
outdoor pay telephone without a permit required by this chapter.
(c) A biennial license fee of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be
submitted with the application. This
fee and a license issued based upon
the application shall cover the period through November 30, 1999 after
the effective date of this ordinance,
and thereafter the license periods
shall be two year periods beginning
December 1 and ending two years
later on November 30. This license
fee is for the purpose of defraying
the expenses incident to the administration of the provisions of this
chapter.
(d) The owner shall promptly
notify the Commissioner in writing
of any change in the information
required by division (a) of this section. Any misrepresentation or false
information contained in a license
application, and any failure to disclose information required by this
chapter, shall be considered a violation of this chapter and the
license, and may be the basis of a
violation notice or a suspension or
revocation of a license or permit.
(e) A copy of each application for
a license shall be provided by the
Commissioner to the Director of
Public Safety and the Council member in whose ward the telephone is
proposed to be installed. These officials shall notify the Director in
writing of any objections to the
license within ten business days
after receiving the application.
(f) Upon receipt of a completed
application and all required information and fees, the Commissioner
shall issue to the owner an outdoor
pay telephone license, except that a

May 21, 1997
license may be denied if the applicant has a significant history of
non-compliance with this chapter, or
if
the
applicant’s
license
was
revoked or an appeal of such a revocation was denied within the previous year.
Section 670B.05 Biennial Outdoor
Pay Telephone Permits Required
(a) Prior to the installation or
placement of an outdoor pay telephone on private property after the
effective date of this ordinance, and
within 90 days of the effective date
of this ordinance for any outdoor
pay telephone located on private
property as of the effective date of
this ordinance, and biennially thereafter, the owner of the telephone
shall submit an application for a
permit to the Commissioner upon
forms to be prescribed by the Commissioner.
The
application
shall
include the following information:
(1) The name, address, telephone
number and federal tax identification or social security number of the
owner;
(2) The number of the owner’s
outdoor pay telephone license, if
applicable;
(3) The serial number or telephone number, location and dimensions of the outdoor pay telephone
located on or to be located on private property and the dimensions of
any telephone enclosure installed or
to be installed;
(4) A description of the services
provided for the users of the outdoor
pay telephone, including any special
telephone features or restrictions;
(5) An affidavit that the proposed
outdoor pay telephone will be in
compliance with all relevant City,
State and federal laws and regulations and this Chapter;
(6) If the telephone was or will
be placed, installed and maintained
by a licensee, the name, address and
telephone number of the property
owner and any lessees of the property where the outdoor pay telephone is or will be located;
(7) A drawing of the location of
the telephone for which the permit
is requested and the location of any
telephone within 1,000 feet of that
telephone;
(8) Any other information as the
Commissioner deems necessary to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
(b) A separate permit application
must be submitted for each outdoor
pay telephone by the owner of the
telephone, whether or not the owner
is required to have an outdoor pay
telephone license, and the permit
application shall be signed by the
owner.
(c) An biennial permit fee of sixty
dollars
($60.00)
per
telephone
installed or to be installed shall be
submitted with the application. This
fee and a permit issued based upon
the application shall cover the period through November 30, 1999 after
the effective date of this ordinance
and thereafter the license periods
shall be two year periods beginning
December 1 and ending two years
later on November 30. This permit
fee is for the purpose of defraying
the expenses incident to the administration of the provisions of this
Chapter.
(d) The owner shall promptly
notify the Commissioner in writing
of any change in the information
required by division (a) of this Section. The owner must submit a written notice of the removal of any
telephone to the Commissioner prior
to the removal. No refund of fees

The City Record
previously paid shall be made for
telephones removed by the owner,
the City or otherwise. If the owner
plans to install or change the location of a telephone, the owner must
submit a new application for a permit with all of the required information, together with a sixty dollar
($60.00) fee for each new telephone
installation or move to defray the
expenses incident to the administration of the provisions of this chapter. No additional fee or permit
application is required to replace a
broken or defective telephone, to
replace an existing authorized telephone with a telephone that has the
technological capabilities required
in this chapter, or to relocate a telephone on the same property to meet
the set back and other locational
requirements of this chapter other
than the 1,000 feet distance requirements.
(e) A copy of each application for
a permit and any notice of a
removal shall be provided by the
Commissioner to the Director of
Public Safety, the Director of Public
Service, and the Council member in
whose ward the telephone is proposed to be installed. The Commissioner shall refer each application
for a permit to the Commissioner of
Building and Housing for review
and approval. The Commissioner of
Building and Housing shall determine whether or not the provisions
of the Building or Zoning Codes
would be violated by the installation
of the telephone, and particularly,
set back requirements, use restrictions, restrictions as to attachments
to structures, and if located in a
parking lot, the Zoning requirement
that a specified number of parking
spaces be available for use by the
business. These officials shall notify the Director in writing of any
objections to the permit within ten
business days after receiving the
application.
(f) A permit application shall be
disapproved if a telephone has been
determined to be a nuisance pursuant to this chapter within 1,000
feet of the proposed telephone location within the previous one year. A
permit application may be disapproved if a telephone has been
determined to be a nuisance pursuant to this chapter within 1,000
feet of the proposed telephone location at any time prior to the application and no other permit has been
approved for a telephone within
1,000 feet of the proposed location
since the nuisance determination, or
if the applicant has violated this
chapter within the previous one
year.
(g) Upon receipt of a completed
application and all required information and fees, the Commissioner
shall issue to the owner an outdoor
pay telephone permit and shall provide the owner with a label to be
affixed to each telephone identifying the registration number and
location of the telephone. A permit
shall either be approved or disapproved within 30 days of the receipt
of a completed application and fee.
A telephone for which a permit is
issued shall be installed within 30
days of the issuance of the permit
or the permit is void and no longer
effective. No refund of permit fees
shall be given if the permit becomes
void.
Section 670B.06 Inspection; Enforcement; Removal Orders; License and
Permit Suspension and Revocation;
Appeal

747

47
(a) It shall be the responsibility
of the Commissioner to perform an
annual inspection of all pay telephones that are installed on private
property in the City, including the
following activities:
(1) Verification that the pay telephone owner is licensed by the City,
if required, and that the telephone
has a permit;
(2) Verification that the label
identifying the registration number
and location of the telephone is present on the telephone;
(3) Once inspection of all pay telephones has been completed, the
Commissioner will provide a report
to the Director listing all pay telephones that have been installed on
private property within the City that
do not have a permit, or for which
the owner does not have a license,
when required, the owners of such
telephones, and the owners of the
properties where such telephones
are located.
(b) Any owner of a pay telephone
who is not in compliance with this
chapter shall be notified in writing
by the Commissioner of the violation, a copy of which shall be sent
to the property owner or owners
where such violations exist, and
that the owner must correct the violations within five (5) business
days. If the owner fails to correct
the
violations
within
the
time
required, the Commissioner may
order any telephone in violation
removed within five (5) days, and
the Commissioner may order the
license or permit of the owner suspended until all violations are corrected, or revoked. An owner may
appeal a violation notice, a removal
order, or an order of suspension or
revocation to the Board of Zoning
Appeals within 10 days of the date
of receipt of the notice or order. The
Board shall promptly notify the
Clerk of Council of any appeal and
of the hearing date. The Board shall
hear the appeal within 10 days after
the appeal is filed, and the Board
shall issue a decision within 10 days
after the conclusion of the hearing.
No notice of the hearing is required
to be provided to adjoining property owners.
(c) If the license of an owner is
suspended or revoked, the owner
must remove all telephones installed
on private property, and the owner
may not install any more telephones
until the suspension is lifted or a
new license is issued. If the permit
of an owner for a telephone is suspended or revoked, the owner must
remove that telephone until the suspension is lifted or a new permit is
issued. An appeal to the Board of
Zoning Appeals of a removal order,
or of a suspension or revocation,
shall stay such removal order, or the
requirement that one or all telephones be removed by the owner,
pending the decision of the Board.
(d) If an owner’s license or permit is revoked, the owner must
apply for a new license or permit
and pay all fees required for a
license or permit prior to the installation of any telephone. After the
revocation of a license or permit, the
owner may not reapply for a license,
or for a permit for the same location, for one year after the date the
revocation is effective and after the
conclusion of any appeal therefrom.
Section 670B.07 Public Nuisance;
Removal of Outdoor Pay Telephones
(a) Upon request in writing by
the member of Council in whose
ward an outdoor pay telephone is

48
located in the right-of-way, or on private property, or upon receipt of verbal or written citizen complaints
concerning such an outdoor pay telephone, the Director of Public Safety
shall conduct an investigation into
whether the installation and maintenance of the outdoor pay telephone constitutes a public nuisance.
Upon determination by the Director of Public Safety that a particular outdoor pay telephone constitutes a public nuisance, the Director
shall order that special telephone
service features as are acceptable to
the Director shall be provided by the
outdoor pay telephone, or if the
Director determines it is necessary,
that the telephone be removed. A
particular outdoor pay telephone
shall constitute a public nuisance
when the Director of Public Safety
determines that one or more of the
following conditions exist:
(1) The outdoor pay telephone has
been used in the commission of illegal drug transactions or other criminal activity, or substantially contributes by its presence to the commission of illegal drug transactions
or other criminal activity as evidenced by significant numbers of
such crimes occurring in the vicinity of the telephone;
(2) The existence of the outdoor
pay telephone has substantially contributed by its presence to the congregation of persons who have made
loud noises and other disturbances
that have disrupted persons residing
near the telephone or disrupted business enterprises located near the
telephone;
(3) The existence of the outdoor
pay telephone has substantially contributed by its presence to the congregation
of
persons
consuming
alcoholic beverages, except where
such
consumption
is
expressly
authorized by a state license, or consuming illegal or controlled substances;
(4) The existence of the outdoor
pay telephone has substantially contributed by its presence to the congregation of persons who have interfered with pedestrian or vehicular
traffic in the public right-of-way
near the telephone;
(5) Usage of the outdoor pay telephone between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
and 5:00 a.m. is significantly and
repeatedly above normal usage for
similarly situated outdoor pay telephones during the same hours so as
to indicate that the telephone is
being used in the commission of illegal drug activity or other criminal
activity;
(6) The pay telephone has been
used to abuse the 911 system.
(b) The special features shall be
instituted,
or
the
owner
shall
remove the telephone, and restore
the right-of-way to its original condition, if applicable, within five (5)
business days of an order to institute special features or remove the
telephone. Any outdoor pay telephone which does not provide special features or is not removed, as
applicable, within five (5) business
days of such an order shall be subject to immediate removal by the
City at the owner’s expense and
shall constitute a default of the
owner’s contract or a violation of
the owner’s license and permit, as
applicable. The owner shall reimburse the City for the cost of removing and storing the telephone before
the telephone may be reclaimed by
the owner. Such costs shall also
include the cost of removing any
installation ancillary to the outdoor

The City Record
pay telephone and the cost of restoring the public right-of-way to its
original condition.
(c) If the Director determines that
the nuisance may be abated by the
reduction in the total number of pay
telephones in an area, the removal
of pay telephones shall be ordered
based upon the total period of time
that a telephone has been registered
with or permitted by the City or
placed pursuant to a contract with
the City, with the telephones registered, permitted, or made a part of
a contract for the least amount of
time being ordered removed first.
(d) The Director of Public Safety
will inform in writing the member
of Council who made the complaint
regarding the pay telephone the
result of such investigation and the
Director shall notify the member in
writing of any order issued by the
Director.
(e) Other than in the circumstance of a removal order pursuant
to Section 670B.03(b)(6), if an outdoor
pay
telephone
has
been
removed from a location because it
is a nuisance, no other pay telephone may be installed at the same
location or within 1,000 feet of that
location for a minimum of one year.
(f) The owner of an outdoor pay
telephone may appeal from the
determination of a nuisance and the
order of special features or removal
issued pursuant to this section to
the Board of Zoning Appeals within
five (5) business days after receipt
of the order. The order shall be
stayed during the pendency of the
appeal before the Board. The Board
shall commence to hear the merits
of an appeal within thirty (30) days
of the filing of an appeal. The
Board shall render a decision within ten (10) days of the date of the
hearing, which decision may affirm,
disaffirm, or grant exception from
the order, requirement, decision or
determination
from
which
the
appeal has been taken. If the Board
affirms an order of the Director that
a telephone constitutes a nuisance,
the owner shall have three (3) business days to remove the outdoor pay
telephone in question; if the owner
fails to correct the violation within
that time, the outdoor pay telephone
may be removed by the Director at
the owner’s expense.
Section 670B.08
PUCO Regulations
Nothing in this Chapter shall be
read so as to limit the authority of
the PUCO to regulate outdoor pay
telephones within the City of Cleveland.
Section 670B.99 Penalty
Any owner as defined in this
Chapter, or any owner, lessee, or
person in possession or control of
private property where an outdoor
pay telephone is or has been located, who violates any part of this
Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined a mandatory one
hundred ($100.00) dollars for a first
offense and five hundred dollars
($500.00) for a second or subsequent
offense. Each day that a violation
occurs or continues constitutes a
separate offense.
Section
3.
That
all
revenue
received by the City from outdoor
pay telephones in the right-of-way
or any pay telephones on or in public property shall be used to fund
computerization and technology projects for the benefit of citizens of
the City at the recreation centers
owned by the City.

748

May 21, 1997
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Safety, City Planning, Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 934-97.
By Councilmen Jackson, Rybka
and Westbrook (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase sites for
expansion and development of the
Cleveland Gear Company, for the
Department of Economic Development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to purchase the following
described property for the purpose
of expansion and development of the
Cleveland Gear Company:
Permanent Parcel No. 127-02-024
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 16 feet of Sublot No. 86 and
the Northerly 14 feet of Sublot No. 87
in Charles H. Seymour’s Subdivision
of part of Original 100 Acre Lot No.
431 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Records together forming a parcel of land 30 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 80th Street
and extending back of equal width
132 feet 3 inches as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Permanent Parcel No. 127-02-026
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 88 and 89 in Charles H.
Seymour’s Subdivision, of part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 431, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and together forming a parcel of land bounded and
described as follows;
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 80th Street, (formerly Atlantic
Street), at a point distant 32 feet
Northerly,
measured
along
said
Westerly line, from the Southeasterly corner of Sublot No. 88; said place
of beginning being also the Northeasterly corner of land conveyed to
Elenore N. Horner by deed dated
January l7, 1917 and recorded in Volume 1769, Page 263 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence
westerly,
along
the
Northerly line of land so conveyed,
67 feet 3 inches to the principal
place of beginning;
Thence southerly, and parallel
with the Westerly line of East 80
Street, 36 feet;

May 21, 1997
Thence
Westerly
and
parallel
with the Northerly line of Sublot No.
89, 65 feet to the Westerly line
thereof;
Thence Northerly, along the Westerly line of Sublots Nos. 89 and 88,
36 feet to the Northwesterly corner
of land so conveyed to Elenore N.
Horner;
Thence
Easterly,
along
the
Northerly line of land so conveyed,
65 feet to the principal place of
beginning as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Permanent Parcel No. 127-02-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 88 and 89 in Charles H.
Seymour’s Subdivision, of part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 431, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and together forming a parcel of land bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 80th Street, (formerly Atlantic
Street) at a point distant 32 feet
Northerly,
measured
along
said
Westerly line, from the Southeasterly corner of Sublot No. 88, said place
of beginning being also the Northeasterly corner of land conveyed to
Elenore N. Horner, by Deed dated
January 17, 1917, and recorded in
Volume 1769, Page 263, of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of East 80th Street, 36 feet;
Thence
Westerly
and
parallel
with the Northerly line of Sublot No.
89, 67 feet 3 inches;
Thence Northerly and parallel
with the Westerly line of East 80th
Street, 36 feet to the Northerly line
of land so conveyed to Elenore N.
Horner;
Thence
Easterly
along
said
Northerly line of land so conveyed,
67 feet 3 inches to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
The above described premises are
sometimes known and designated
as:
3218 East 80th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Subject to and together with a
joint and permanent easement of the
following described land, for ingress
and egress, for the use and benefit
of the same with the Grantor, his
heirs and assigns, the Grantees,
their heirs and assigns and the owners, occupants, tenants and employees of premises to the rear Southwest to the rear Northwest and to
the Northeast, which premises are
sometimes known and designated
as:
3220 East 80th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
3222 East 80th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
3224 East 80th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
and appearing of record in Volume
7218, Page 199.
Permanent Parcel No. 127-02-002
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 89 and 90 in Charles Seymour’s Subdivision, of part of Original 100 Acre Lot No. 431, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together forming a
parcel
of
land
bounded
and
described as follows:

The City Record
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 80th Street, (formerly Atlantic
Street), at a point distant 2 feet
Southerly,
measured
along
said
Westerly line, from the Northeasterly corner of Sublot No. 90, said place
of beginning being also the Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to
Elenore N. Horner, by deed dated
January 17, 1917, and recorded in
Volume 1769, Page 263, of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence
Westerly,
along
the
Southerly line of land so conveyed,
67 feet, 3 inches to the principal
place of beginning;
Thence Northerly, and parallel
with the Westerly line of East 80th
Street, 36 feet;
Thence Westerly and parallel with
the Northerly line of Sublot No. 89,
65 feet to the Westerly line thereof;
Thence Southerly, along the Westerly line of Sublot Nos. 89 and 90, 36
feet to the Southwesterly corner of
land so conveyed to Elenore N.
Horner;
Thence
Easterly
along
the
Southerly line of land so conveyed,
65 feet to the principal place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
The above described premises are
sometimes known and designated
as:
3222 East 80th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio (rear South).
Subject to and together with a
joint and permanent Easement over
the following described land, for the
ingress and egress, for the use and
benefit
of
the
same
with
the
Grantor, his heirs and assigns, the
Grantees, their heirs and assigns
and the owners, occupants, tenant
and agent and employees of premises directly to the North and to the
Southeast
and
Northeast,
which
premises are sometimes known and
designated as:
3220 East 80th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
3218 East 80th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
3224 East 80th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
Subject to easement as recorded in
Volume 7226, Page 306.
Permanent Parcel No. 127-02-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
Nos. 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64 and
65 in the Chas. Seymour’s Subdivision of part of Original Township
Lot No. 431, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page
38 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Said Sublots together form a parcel of land having a frontage of 346
feet on East 79th Street, as appears
by said plat, but subject to all legal
highways.
Permanent Parcel No. 127-02-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 22 feet of Sublot No. 86
and the Southerly 34 feet of Sublot
No. 85 in Chas. H. Seymour’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 431, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land having a frontage of
56 feet on the Westerly side of East
80th
Street,
(formerly
Atlantic
Street, and extending back of equal
width 132 25/100 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.

749

49
Permanent Parcel No. 127-02-025
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 24 feet of Sublot No. 87
and the Northerly 6 feet of Sublot
No. 88 in Chas. H. Seymour’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 431, as shown by
the recorded plat of said Subdivision
in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 38 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records.
Said
parts of said Sublots Nos. 87 and 88
together form a parcel of land having a frontage of 30 feet on the
Westerly side of East 80th Street
(formerly
Atlantic
Street)
and
extending back between parallel
lines 132 feet 3 inches as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Permanent Parcel No. 127-02-028
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 40 feet of Sublot No. 90 in
Charles H. Seymour’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Lot
No. 431 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 38
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 40 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 80th Street and extending back of equal width 132.3 feet
along the Northerly side of Avrina
Avenue, S.E., as appears by said
plat.
Permanent Parcel No. 127-07-035
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
98 in Charles H. Seymour’s Subdivision of part of Original 100 Acre Lot
No. 431, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 38
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 38 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 80th Street and extending back of equal width 139 feet 10
inches, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Permanent Parcel No. 127-07-036
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
97 in Charles H. Seymour’s Subdivision of part of Original 100 Acre Lot
No. 431, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 38
of Cuyahoga County Records, said
Sublot No. 97 has a frontage of 38
feet on the Easterly side of East
80th
Street,
(formerly
Atlantic
Street) and extends back between
parallel lines 139-10/12 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Permanent Parcel No. 127-07-044
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio,
and known as being Sublot
No. 20 in C.C. Baldwin’s Re-Allotment of part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 431 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 14 of Maps, Page
20 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 40 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 81st Street and being
120 feet deep, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Permanent Parcel No. 127-07-042
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
22 in C.C. Baldwin’s Re-Allotment of
A.C. Armstrong’s Allotment of part
of Original 100 Acre Lot No. 431 as

50
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 14 of Maps, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
Fredwill Street (now known as East
81st Street) and extending back of
equal width 120 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Permanent Parcel No. 127-07-033
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
100 on East 80th Street, in the
Charles H. Seymour’s Subdivision of
part of Original Township Lot No.
431, as appears by said plat recorded in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 38 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to execute on behalf of
the City of Cleveland all necessary
documents to acquire such property
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers,
environmental
audits,
and relocation costs, if any, and all
other costs necessary for the acquisition of such property.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for such property shall
not exceed its fair market value.
Section 4. That all costs of acquisition of land shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 501, Request No.
23325.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 935-97.
By Councilmen Jackson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Uptown Cleveland Security Corp., or
its designee, to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance commercial security services
in
the
Cleveland
Supplemental
Empowerment
Zone,
Cleveland,
Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with Uptown Cleveland Security
Corp., or its designee, to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance commercial security services in the Cleveland Supplemental Empowerment Zone, Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Two Million Dollars Dollars ($2,000,000.00),
and shall be paid from Fund No. 18
SF 006, Request No. 22298.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

The City Record
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 936-97.
By Councilmen Polensek, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Jergens, Inc.,
or its designee, to provide for a ten
(10) year abatement for certain tangible personal property and real
estate taxes as an incentive to
expand its business located at East
152nd Street and South Waterloo
Road in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas,
Jergens,
Inc.
(the
“Enterprise”)
has
proposed
to
expand its facilities by acquiring
land, constructing one or more buildings and purchasing machinery and
equipment for its operation located
at East 152nd Street and South
Waterloo Road in the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement of personal property and real
estate taxes the Enterprise would be
at a competitive disadvantage by
operating at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and
for the further reason that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, such assistance being immediately necessary
or such jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby approves the application of Jergens, Inc., or its designee(s), for
enterprise zone incentives on the
basis that Jergens, Inc. is qualified
by financial responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in
the Cleveland Area Enterprises Zone
and to improve the economic climate
of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Jergens, Inc.,
or its designee(s), to provide for a
ten (10) year abatement for certain

750

May 21, 1997
tangible personal property and real
estate taxes as an incentive to
expand its facilities by acquiring
land, constructing one or more buildings and purchasing machinery and
equipment for its operation at East
152nd Street and Waterloo Road in
Cleveland,
Ohio;
said
abatement
shall be subject to annual review of
the Tax Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 936-97-A.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 937-97.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire certain property for the Department of Economic
Development, and to sell such property to Cleveland Business Park, Ltd.
and Emerald Research Park, Ltd.
Whereas, by Ordinance No. 331-97,
passed March 24, 1997, this Council
authorized the Director of Economic
Development to apply for and accept
grant funds from the State of Ohio
Department
of
Development
442
Urban and Rural Initiative Grant
Program; and
Whereas, by letters dated April 23,
1997 and May 1, 1997, the Ohio
Department of Development notified
the City that, subject to approval of
the State Controlling Board, the City
of Cleveland will receive up to
$2,000,000.00 of grant funds from the
442 Urban and Rural Initiative
Grant Program; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, subject to approval of the State Controlling
Board, grant funds received by the
City under the Ohio Department of
Development 442 Urban and Rural
Initiative
Grant
Program
and
deposited in Fund Nos. 17 SF 041, 17
SF 042, and 17 SF 043 are hereby
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the grant application authorized by Ordinance No. 331-97, passed
March 24, 1997.

May 21, 1997
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to provisions of
Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is hereby authorized to
acquire and accept fee title to property described on the map contained
in Council File 937-97-A, and being
P.P. Nos. 029-15-015, 029-15-057, 029-16002, 029-16-020, 029-16-077, 029-16-078,
029-16-085, 029-19-023, and 029-19-053,
for purposes of conveying said property to Cleveland Business Park,
Ltd, or its designee, in accordance
with Sections 5 and 6 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to provisions of
Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is hereby authorized to
acquire and accept fee title to property described on the map contained
in the Council File referenced in
Section 1 of this Ordinance, being
P.P. Nos. 029-02-005, 029-05-003, 029-05005, and 029-06-003 through 029-06020, for purposes of conveying said
property to Emerald Research Park,
Ltd., or its designee, in accordance
with Sections 5 and 6 of this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to execute on behalf of
the City of Cleveland all necessary
documents to acquire such property
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers,
environmental
audits,
and all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of such property.
Section 5. That the consideration
for acquisition of such properties to
be paid by the City shall not exceed
its fair market value; all costs of
acquisition of such properties shall
be paid, subject to availability of
funds from the State of Ohio Department of Development, from Fund
Nos. 17 SF 042 and 17 SF 043.
Section 6. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to provisions of
Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
by and at the direction of the Board
of Control, the Mayor and Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies are
hereby authorized to convey the
properties described in Sections 2
and 3 of this Ordinance to Cleveland
Business Park, Ltd. and Emerald
Research Park, Ltd., respectively,
for purposes of redevelopment. All
costs of conveyance of said property, including conveyance, transfer,
and recording fees, shall be paid by
Cleveland Business Park, Ltd. and
Emerald
Research
Park,
Ltd.,
respectively.
Section 7. That the conveyances
authorized by Section 6 of this ordinance shall be by Official Quit
Claim deed, which shall contain language designating the conveyance
“as is”, and shall also contain such
restrictive covenants, redevelopment
obligations, or similar provisions as
the Director of Economic Development or the Director of Law deem
appropriate or necessary to protect
the interests of the City of Cleveland.
Section 8. That the Directors of
Economic Development and Law
and the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies are hereby authorized
to enter into and execute all documents, certificates, and agreements
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with the State of Ohio Department
of Development, and Cleveland Business Park, Ltd. and Emerald Re-

The City Record
search Park, Ltd. necessary or appropriate for the acquisition, disposition, and redevelopment of such
properties, consistent with this ordinance and the Executive Summaries
contained in Council File No. 331-97A.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 938-97.
By Councilmen Jackson, Rybka
and Westbrook (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
MidTown Corridor, or its designee,
to provide economic development
assistance
to
partially
finance
acquisition and development activities for the MidTown Commerce
Park between Chester and Euclid
Avenue at East 55th Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with MidTown Corridor, or its designee, to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the acquisition and development
activities for the MidTown Commerce Park between Chester and
Euclid Avenue at East 55th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan and grant shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 938-97-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000.00), and shall
be paid from Fund No. 18 SF 001,
Request No. 22296.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized and directed to accept
the collateral as set forth in the
Executive Summary contained in
the file referenced in Section 2 of
this ordinance in order to secure
repayment of said loan. Any security instrument shall be prepared
and approved by the Director of
Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized
to
accept monies in
repayment
of
the loan and
to
deposit said monies in Fund No. 18
SF 002.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under federal regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited to and expended
from Fund No. 18 SF 004.

751

51
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 939-97.
By Councilmen Patmon, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Glenville Development Corporation,
or its designee, to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance the acquisition and development of land at or near the intersection of East 105th Street and St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with Glenville Development Corporation, or its designee, to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the Phase I acquisition and development of land at or
near the intersection of East 105th
Street and St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan and grant shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 939-97-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000.00), and shall
be paid from Fund No. 18 SF 001,
Request No. 22297.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized and directed to accept
the collateral as set forth in the
Executive Summary contained in
the file referenced in Section 2 of
this ordinance in order to secure
repayment of said loan. Any security instrument shall be prepared and
approved by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 18 SF 002.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under federal regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited to and expended
from Fund No. 18 SF 004.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.

52
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred
to
Directors
of
Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 940-97.
By Councilmen Smith, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the State of Ohio, Department of Development to assist in
roadwork improvements on West
26th Street, West 28th Street, Bridge
Avenue and Carroll Avenue necessary to accommodate expansion of
Great Lakes Brewing Company and
other redevelopment occurring in
the area; and to enter into contract
with Ohio City Near West Development Corp. and/or Ohio City Development, Ltd., to implement the projects.
Whereas, the Roadwork Development Fund was established by
Amended Sub. H.B. 107 for the purpose of funding the design, upgrade
and/or construction of public roadways serving commercial or industrial economic development projects;
and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
wishes to apply for and accept
funds from the Roadwork Development Fund to undertake and complete applicable economic development projects in the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to apply for and accept
a
grant
in
the
amount
of
$166,520.00, from the State of Ohio,
Department
of
Development,
to
assist in the construction and engineering of roadwork improvements
on West 26th Street, West 28th
Street, Bridge Avenue and Carroll
Avenue necessary to accommodate
expansion of Great Lakes Brewing
Company and other redevelopment
occurring in the area, and for the
purposes set forth in the application and according thereto; that the
Director of Economic Development
is hereby authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds
under said grant; and that said
funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for said
grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 940-97-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Ohio City Near West Development Corp. and/or Ohio City Devel-

The City Record
opment, Ltd. for the implementation
of the projects as described in the
application contained in the file,
payable from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to Section 1
of this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 941-97.
By Councilmen Polensek, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
Collinwood Properties Co., Inc., L.L.C.
to provide financial assistance for
remediation of Collinwood Yards, and
to amend Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 333-97, passed March 24,
1997, relating to Collinwood Yards.
Whereas, by Ordinance No. 331-97,
passed March 24, 1997, this Council
authorized the Director of Economic Development to apply for and
accept grant funds from the State of
Ohio Department of Development
442 Urban and Rural Initiative
Grant Program; and
Whereas, by letter dated April 23,
1997, the Ohio Department of Development notified the City that, subject to approval of the State Controlling Board, the City of Cleveland
will receive up to $1,000,000.00 of
grant funds from the 442 Urban and
Rural Initiative Grant Program; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Collinwood Properties Co., Inc.,
L.L.C., to provide economic development assistance for remediation of
hazardous environmental conditions
at Collinwood Yards.
Section 2. That the terms of said
contract shall be in accordance with
the terms as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in File No.
941-97-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) and, subject to approval of the State Controlling Board and receipt of funds
from the Ohio Department of Development, shall be paid from Fund No.
17 SF 041.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized and directed to accept
collateral as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in the file
referenced in Section 2 of this ordinance in order to secure repayment
of said loan. Any security instrument
shall
be
prepared
and
approved by he Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is hereby authorized to accept monies in repayment
of such loan and to deposit said
monies in Fund No. 17 SF 041.

752

May 21, 1997
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under federal regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited to and expended
from Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 333-97, passed March
24, 1997, are hereby amended to
read, respectively, as follows:
Section 1. That, provisions of Ordinance No. 56-94, passed June 13, 1995
to the contrary notwithstanding, the
Director of Economic Development
is hereby authorized to enter into a
Neighborhood Development Investment Fund contract with Collinwood
Properties Co., Inc., L.L.C., to provide economic development assistance to develop a fifty (50) acre
industrial park at an area now
known as Collinwood Yards, located
at East 152nd Street and South
Waterloo Road, Cleveland.
Section 2. That the terms of said
contract shall comply with the
requirements of the Neighborhood
Development Investment Program
and NDIF, as set forth in Section 1
of Ordinance No. 56-94, passed June
13, 1994, and shall be in accordance
with the terms as set forth in the
Executive Summary contained in
File No. 333-97-B.
Section 9. That existing Sections 1
and 2 of Ordinance No. 333-97, passed
March 24, 1997, are hereby repealed.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING
ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 942-97.
By Councilman Smith.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of lands between Auburn
Avenue, S.W. and Barber Avenue,
S.W., east of W. 25 Street and west
of Scranton Road. (Map Change No.
1919, Sheet No. 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows,
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of Auburn Avenue,
S.W. and the northerly extension of
the easterly line of Sublot No. 21 in
the E. L. and R. L. Barber Subdivision as recorded in Volume 1, Page
28 of the Cuyahoga County Map
Records, thence southerly along said
northerly extension and along said
easterly line of said Sublot No. 21
and along its southerly extension to
the center line of Barber Avenue,
S.W.; thence westerly along said
center line of Barber Avenue, S.W.

May 21, 1997
to its intersection with the southerly extension of the westerly line of
Sublot No. 16 in said E. L. and R. L.
Barber Subdivision; thence northerly
along said southerly extension and
along said westerly line of said
Sublot No. 16 to its intersection with
a line located approximately fifty
three and sixty one hundredths
(53.61) feet south of the southerly
line of Auburn Avenue, S.W.; thence
westerly along said line which is
parallel to and approximately fifty
three and sixty one hundredths
(53.61) feet south of said southerly
line of Auburn Avenue, S.W. for a
distance of thirty one (31) feet;
thence northerly from said point to
the center line of Auburn Avenue,
S.W.; thence easterly along said center line of Auburn Avenue, S.W. to
the place of beginning,
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached, be and the same is
hereby changed to a Semi Industry
Use District.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 1919, Sheet No. 1 and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Director of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee
on City Planning.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. 943-97.
By Councilman Sweeney (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Original Grayton Road.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of Original Grayton
Road, as hereinafter described, and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being all that
portion of ORIGINAL GRAYTON
ROAD (60.00 feet wide), lying Westerly of a line 30.00 feet Westerly
from that portion of the centerline
of
Relocated
Grayton
Road
described as follows:
Beginning at a stone monument in
the centerline of Grayton Road at its
intersection with the Southerly line
of the Grayton Village Subdivision
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 154 of Maps, Page 22 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
North 14° 52' 00" West about 216.93
feet to a point of curvature therein;
thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, an arc distance of 1810.22 feet. Said curve having a radius of 5729.58 feet and a
chord bearing North 5° 48' 56" West,
1802.70 feet to a point of tangency.
As shown by the Cuyahoga County
Engineer’s “Grayton Road Alteration
and Improvement” Plan No. M 4493.

The City Record
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 905-97.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 777-97,
passed May 7, 1997, relating to the
issue of a permit to Young Audiences of Greater Cleveland Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 777-97, passed May 7, 1997,
is hereby amended to read as follows:
“That notwithstanding the provision of Section 623.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Director of Public Service
is hereby authorized and directed
to issue a permit to Young Audiences of Greater Cleveland, Inc., to
install, maintain and remove a banner on Carnegie Avenue at E. 65th
Street for the period from May 12,
1997 to May 28, 1997, inclusive. Said
banners shall be approved by the
Director of Public Safety as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial advertising shall be
printed or permitted on said banners and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.”
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 777-97, passed May
7, 1997, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 906-97.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency ordinance granting
permission and authority to the Merchant’s Guild of Slavic Village to
sell and dispense alcoholic beverages at Morgana Park on Sunday,
June 29, 1997, in connection with
their 4th of July Picnic.

753

53
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained
in the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, permission and
authority is hereby granted to the
Merchant’s Guild of Slavic Village
to sell and dispense alcoholic beverages at Morgana Park on Sunday,
June 29, 1997, in connection with
their 4th of July Picnic, provided
said selling and dispensing meets
all requirements of state law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 907-97.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance to permit
the Commissioner of Parking Facilities to provide parking at no
charge on May 20, 1997 at Cleveland
Municipal Parking Lot for participants at the Neighborhood Centers
Association’s May 20, 1997 event.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained
in the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and the Commissioner of Parking
Facilities are hereby authorized and
directed to permit the participants
in the Neighborhood Centers Association event to be held on May 20,
1997 to park in Cleveland Muncipal
Parking Lot on May 20, 1997 at no
charge.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 21.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 21. Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 908-97.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 9200
Wade Park Avenue Unit A30 & 40.

54
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
9349510 WAK Grocery Inc., 9200
Wade Park Avenue Unit A30 & 40,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106, to Permit No.
4155529; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, in the event IS Grocery,
Inc., the transferee of the permit,
executes a cooperation agreement
with the City relating to said permit, the objection to the transfer of
ownership of the C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit set forth in this Resolution
may be withdrawn; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
9349510 WAK Grocery Inc., 9200
Wade Park Avenue Unit A30 & 40,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106, to Permit No.
4155529; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

The City Record
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 909-97.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 1795
East 55th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Director of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit from Permit No. 3160612, Elias
Ghazal, DBA Big Star Eagle Market,
1795 East 55th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, to Permit No. 7705275; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, in the event Sammor,
Inc., the transferee of the permit,
executes a cooperation agreement
with the City relating to said permit, the objection to the transfer of
ownership of the C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit set forth in this Resolution
may be withdrawn; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
3160612, Elias Ghazal, DBA Big Star
Eagle Market, 1795 East 55th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103, to Permit No.
7705275; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.

754

May 21, 1997
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 910-97.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C1 Liquor
Permit to Ellanora Perry at 1210
East 79th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Ellanora Perry at 1210 East 79th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44103; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, in the event Ellanora
Perry executes a cooperation agreement with the City relating to said
permit, the objection to the C1
Liquor Permit set forth in this Resolution may be withdrawn; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Ellanora Perry and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.

May 21, 1997
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 21.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21. Nays 0.
Res. No. 911-97.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 3230 West 65th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 18427740035, C S Ross Co.,
dba Big Lots 803, 3230 West 65th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 18427740035, C S Ross Co.,
dba Big Lots 803, 3230 West 65th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 912-97.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of location of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 11003
Superior Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor
Permit
from Permit
No.
7184953, Ramis Food Market, Inc.,
dba Little FY Nest Market, 12419
Superior Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, to Permit No. 4788115, Koos Inc., dba Koos
Food & Beverage, 11003 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X

755

55
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
7184953, Ramis Food Market, Inc.,
dba Little FY Nest Market, 12419
Superior Avenue, 1st Floor and
Basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, to
Permit No. 4788115, Koos Inc., dba
Koos Food & Beverage, 11003 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44106,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 913-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D2, D2X and D3 Liquor Permit to
812 Huron Road, First Floor, Unit
6R3.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X and
D3 Liquor Permit to Permit No.
1346706, Caxton Cafe Inc., dba Caxton Cafe, 812 Huron Road, 1st Floor,
Unit 6R3 to Permit No. 4143808, I 90
Ltd LLC, 812 Huron Road, 1st Floor,
Unit 6R3, Cleveland, Ohio 44115; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation

56
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X and
D3 Liquor Permit to Permit No.
1346706, Caxton Cafe Inc., dba Caxton Cafe, 812 Huron Road, 1st Floor,
Unit 6R3 to Permit No. 4143808, I 90
Ltd LLC, 812 Huron Road, 1st Floor,
Unit 6R3, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 914-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of location of a
D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit
to 1575 Merwin Avenue, 1st Fl.,
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of location of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit from Permit No.
00045080005, A Jay Inc., 3382 W. 44th
St., 1st Fl. & Bmst., Cleveland, Ohio
44109, to Permit No. 000450800051, A
Jay Inc., 1575 Merwin Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44113; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public

The City Record
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of location of a D2, D2X, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit from Permit No.
00045080005, A Jay Inc., 3382 W. 44th
St., 1st Fl. & Bmst., Cleveland, Ohio
44109, to Permit No. 000450800051, A
Jay Inc., 1575 Merwin Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44113, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 915-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 3133
Payne Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Director of Liquor Control of
an application for the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit from Permit No. 8916979, 3133
Payne Inc., dba Amy Beverage &
Deli, 3133 Payne Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44114, to Permit No. 7701687,
Sam Khatib Inc., dba Amy Beverage
& Deli, 3133 Payne Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement offi-

756

May 21, 1997
cers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it substantially interferes with public decency, sobriety, peace or good order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
8916979, 3133 Payne Inc., dba Amy
Beverage
&
Deli,
3133
Payne
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, to
Permit No. 7701687, Sam Khatib Inc.,
dba Amy Beverage & Deli, 3133
Payne
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44114, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 916-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 4301 Payne Ave., 1st Fl. &
Bsmt.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit from Permit
No. 3908913, Hoi Tin City Inc., dba
Duffys Tavern, 4301 Payne Ave., 1st
Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
to Permit No. 7672461 Sahara Corp.,
dba Sahara Club, 4301 Payne Ave.,
1st Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio
44103; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard

May 21, 1997
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to the building, safety or
health requirements of the governing body of this County or City;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3A
and D6 Liquor Permit from Permit
No. 3908913, Hoi Tin City Inc., dba
Duffys Tavern, 4301 Payne Ave., 1st
Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
to Permit No. 7672461 Sahara Corp.,
dba Sahara Club, 4301 Payne Ave.,
1st Fl. & Bsmt., Cleveland, Ohio
44103, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 917-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership
of a D2, D2X, D3 and D6 L i q u o r
Permit to 3528 Payne Avenue, 1st
F l.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3
and D6 Liquor Permit from Permit
No. 0298862, Asia Inc., dba Payne
Cafe, 3528 Payne Avenue, 1st Fl.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, to Permit No.

The City Record
6773142, Payne Cafe Inc., dba Payne
Cafe, 3528 Payne Avenue, 1st Fl.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3
and D6 Liquor Permit from Permit
No. 0298862, Asia Inc., dba Payne
Cafe, 3528 Payne Avenue, 1st Fl.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, to Permit No.
6773142, Payne Cafe Inc., dba Payne
Cafe, 3528 Payne Avenue, 1st Fl.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 21.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21. Nays 0.
Res. No. 918-97.
By Councilman Skrha.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a D1 & D2
Liquor Permit to 2065 Scranton Rd.

757

57
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a D1 & D2 Liquor Permit to Permit No. 5379240, MHYachting Inc., Fed Reg. #964804, DBA
Moondance,
2065
Scranton
Rd.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a D1 & D2 Liquor Permit to Permit No. 5379240, MH Yachting Inc., Fed Reg. #964804, DBA
Moondance,
2065
Scranton
Rd.,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect
and be in force immediately upon
its adoption and approval by the
Mayor;
otherwise it
shall take
effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by
law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

58
Res. No. 919-97.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 16300 Lake Shore Blvd.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 18427740040, C S Ross, Co.,
dba Big Lots 1048, 16300 Lake Shore
Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio 44110-1014;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
safety and welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 18427740040, C S Ross, Co.,
dba Big Lots 1048, 16300 Lake Shore
Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio 44110-1014;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas 21.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21. Nays 0.
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1980-96.
By Councilmen Patton, Rybka and
Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of demolishing
certain obsolete water towers and
pump
stations;
authorizing
the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into contracts for the making of
such improvements; authorizing the
acquisition of various rights and
interests in said property; authorizing the relocation or modification of
fixtures on said property; and authorizing various professional service
contracts.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Recommended by
Committees on Public Utilities, City
Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 211-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of in-line fuel
treatment devices for gasoline and
diesel engines, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
Ord. No. 264-97.
By Councilmen Patton, Rybka and
Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of replacing a
sewer on Cooley Avenue, and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into contract for the
making of such improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Recommended by
Committees on Public Utilities, City
Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 274-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Port Control to enter into an agreement for the purchase of telephones
and related equipment, installation
and maintenance and purchase or
lease of installation, labor and maintenance, as needed, of a voice mail
system, for the various division of
the Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 324-97.
By Councilmen Coats, Rybka and
Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, Section 1 and Section 2 of
Ordinance No. 1004-91, passed July
24, 1991, relating to consent of the
City of Cleveland for participation
in the repair and resurfacing of
Rocky River Drive, thereto, to cause
payment of Cleveland’s share.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Recommended by
Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.

758

May 21, 1997
Ord. No. 328-97.
By Councilmen Jackson, Rybka
and Westbrook (by departmental
request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
appropriate property for the demolition
and
redevelopment
of
the
blighted premises located at 2654
Lisbon Road, Cleveland, Ohio.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 334-97.
By Councilmen Patton, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone
Agreement
with
NorthStar
Equipment Corp., or its designee, to
provide for a ten year abatement for
certain tangible personal property
and real estate taxes as an incentive to construct a new facility and
to purchase machinery and equipment for its facility which will be
located in the Cleveland Industrial
Park.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Community and Economic, City Planning
Commission, Finance; when amended as follows:.
1. In Section 1, line 2, and in Section 2, line 3, after “designee(s)”
insert the following: “provided that
said designee(s) is wholly owned by
NorthStar Equipment Corp.”.
2. Insert a new Section 4 to read
as follows:
“Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.”.
3. Renumber existing Sections 4
and 5 to new “Section 5” and “Section 6”.
4. In Section 2, line 7, after “Park;”
insert the following: “said abatement shall not be transferrable or
assignable by the enterprise to any
entity without the prior authorization by this council, and”.
5. In existing Section 4, at the end,
strike the period and insert the following: “including provisions prohibiting (a) the Enterprise from
assigning or transferring its rights
under the Agreement to any entity
without first receiving the approval
of Cleveland City Council, and (b)
changing the terms of the abatement without first receiving the
approval of Cleveland City Council,
which approvals shall be evidence
by appropriate legislation.”.
6. In exiting Section 3, at the end,
insert the following new sentences:
On page (4) of said Executive
Summary, “development recommendation” number three (3) is deleted
in its entirety, and the following
provision is inserted in its place:
That NorthStar Equipment Corporation shall use its best efforts to
employ 25% of the new hires from
Ward 1, and the remainder of City
of Cleveland hires from other City
wards.
Amendments agreed to.

May 21, 1997
Ord. No. 381-97.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 39th Place, hereinafter described.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Recommended by
Committees
on
Public
Service,
Finance, Law.
Ord. No. 382-97.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 69th Street and East
70th Street, hereinafter described.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Recommended by
Committees
on
Public
Service,
Finance, Law.
Ord. No. 388-97.
By Councilmen Patton, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at the southeast corner of
the intersection of Johnston Parkway and Seville Avenue to NorthStar
Equipment Corp., or its designee.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City Planning.
Ord. No. 389-97.
By Councilman Paulenske.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of King Court N.E., hereinafter described.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Recommended by
Committees
on
Public
Service,
Finance, Law.
Ord. No. 394-97.
By Councilmen Paulenske, Jackson, Rybka and Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to lease real property located south and adjacent to the Main
Avenue Bridge west of West Ninth
Street and a platform attached and
located underneath the Main Avenue
Bridge from the Board of County
Commissioners of Cuyahoga County,
and to then lease all or part of that
same real property to the National
Terminals Apartments Limited Liability Company, or its designee, for
a term not to exceed fifty years to
make parking available in support of
a housing development project.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 421-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
employ one or more firms of certified engineers, to provide professional services to perform geotechnical engineering, material testing,
environmental assessments and construction inspection services for various public improvement projects.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 423-97.
By Councilmen Johnson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation & Properties to enter into a
Concession Agreement with Holy
Moses Water Taxi. In exchange for
docking and operating privileges
from the Settler’s Landing site, Holy
Moses Water Taxi will be responsible for the maintenance of the area
from Settler’s Landing, west of the
RTA tracks, between St. Clair and
Veteran’s Memorial Bridge.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committees
on
Public
Parks,
Property
and
Recreation, Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In Section 1, at the last sentence, strike “October 31, 1997” and
insert in lieu thereof “October 31,
1998”.
2. In Section 1, add a new paragraph at the end to read as follows:
“That
the
Director
of
Parks,
Recreation and Properties shall provide an annual report to the Council on services rendered by Holy
Moses Water Taxi pursuant to its
contract.”.
Amendments agreeds to.
Ord. No. 434-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more consultants or
firms of consultants, to provide professional services necessary for testing and construction inspection services, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 535-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase
by requirement contract of labor
and materials needed to repair and
replace automotive, truck and construction equipment glass, including
related mechanical repairs, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
Ord. No. 536-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials needed to repair and maintain generators, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
Ord. No. 537-97.
By Councilman Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain heavy duty construction
equipment, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.

759

59
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
Ord. No. 538-97.
By Councilman Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of Ford passenger car parts, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
Ord. No. 539-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of Ford tractor, mower and construction equipment parts, including labor if necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
Ord. No. 540-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of International truck parts, including installation
if necessary, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
Ord. No. 541-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of oil and filter changes, valve body recalibration, and rebuilt automatic Allison
transmissions, including installation
if necessary, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
Ord. No. 542-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of tire repair
road service, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
Ord. No. 543-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement
contract
of
various
types of batteries, for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.

60
Ord. No. 544-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase
by requirement contract of labor
and materials necessary to repair or
replace the fuel dispensing pumps
and systems necessary for fuel operations, fuel tankers, hydraulic lifts,
oil and grease dispensing equipment, stationary air compressor,
and for emergency cleanup and
replacement
of
leaking
underground storage tanks and systems,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance. Department of Public
Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
Ord. No. 545-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of Chevrolet
car, van, light, medium and heavy
duty truck parts, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
Ord. No. 546-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of Cushman
equipment parts, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
Ord. No. 550-97.
By Councilmen Patton, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
NorthStar Equipment Corp., or its
designee, to provide economic development
assistance
to
partially
finance the land acquisition and
construction of a commercial/industrial building to be located in the
Cleveland Industrial Park.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 559-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
apply for and accept FAA grant
funds.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation,
Finance,
when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 3, at the end, insert
the following new paragraph:
“That the Director of Port Control
shall provide a quarterly report to
the members of Council on public
improvement and professional services contracts entered into pursuant to this ordinance and payable

The City Record
from the fund or funds to which are
credited grant proceeds accepted
pursuant to this ordinance.”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 560-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to authorize the Director of Port Control to
enter into amendments to certain
leases with various signatory airlines at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; and to further authorize the Director to enter into an
Assignment and Novation with the
following: United Airlines, Inc. and
Continental Airlines, Inc. to release
United Airlines, Inc. from all duties
and liabilities relative to its flight
operations facility under Contract
No. 30841 and to substitute Continental Airlines, Inc. under said contract;
USAir, Inc. and Continental Airlines,
Inc. to release USAir, Inc. from all
duties and liabilities relative to
Gates A-2, A-4, A-6, A-9 and A-11 and
associated support and operations
space under City Contract No. 28672,
and to substitute Continental Airlines, Inc. under said contract; and
Continental Airlines, Inc. and TWA,
Inc. to release Continental Airlines,
Inc. from all duties and liabilities
relative to Gates A-2, A-4 and A-6 and
associated support and operations
space under City Contract No. 28672,
and to substitute TWA, Inc. under
said contract, subject to TWA, Inc.
demonstrating to the City the need
for the use of all such gates.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 571-97.
By Councilmen Polensek and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials necessary to fabricate and
install enlarged street name signs
throughout the City of Cleveland,
and other equipment and materials
necessary for the production and
installation therefor, for the Division
of Traffic Engineering and Parking,
Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Recommended
by Committees on Public Safety,
Finance, when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 4, and in Section 1, line 5, strike “labor and”.
2. In the title, at the end, strike
the period and insert in lieu thereof “for a two year period.”.
3. In Section 1, line 4, strike “one
year” and insert in lieu thereof “two
years”; in lines 14 and 15, strike “a
year” and insert in lieu thereof “two
years”; and in line 17, strike “year”
and insert “two year period”;
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 615-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to enter into contract
without competitive bidding with
E.J. Ward, Inc. for the purchase of
spare replacement parts for the fuel
control terminals and for telephone
consultation needed to maintain the
terminals, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.

760

May 21, 1997
Ord. No. 618-97.
By Councilmen Johnson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
enter into contract with Clean-Land
Ohio, to conduct a vacant lot maintenance program for the Division of
Park Maintenance and Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committees
on
Public
Parks,
Property
and
Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 624-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Port Control to enter into contract
with Malcolm Pirnie, Inc. for various environmental services, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 625-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more surveyors or
firms of surveyors to provide professional services necessary to survey various parcels or portions of
parcels of land.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 627-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Finance, for the Cleveland Municipal Court, to enter into contract
with the Legal Aid Society of Cleveland for legal services necessary to
defend indigents charged with violation of ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, provided such violation
may result in incarceration, for the
Cleveland Municipal Court.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committee on
Finance, when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, in line eight, delete
“$775,000.00” and insert in lieu thereof “$753,000.00.”
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 658-97.
By Councilmen Britt, Jackson and
Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 81-96,
passed April 1, 1996 relating to a
contract with Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corporation, or its designee, for economic development
assistance to partially finance the
acquisition of land in the Fairfax
neighborhood and to finance the
construction of new housing.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law; Recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance, when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 2, strike “Section 1” and insert the following:
“Sections 1 and 2”.
2. In Section 1, line 1, strike “Section 1” and insert the following:
“Sections 1 and 2”; and in line 2,
strike “is” and insert “are”.

May 21, 1997
3. In Section 1, strike lines 17, 18
and 19 in their entirety and insert
in lieu thereof the following:
“acquisition of land for the Villas At
Woodhaven project in accordance
with the terms of the Executive
Summary referenced in Section 2 of
this ordinance.
Section 2. That the term of said
loan shall be accordance with the
terms as set forth in the Executive
Summary contained in File No. 8196-B.”.
4. In Section 2, line 1, strike “Section 1” and insert in lieu thereof
“Sections 1 and 2”; and in line 2,
strike “is” and insert “are”.
Amendments agreed to.
Ord. No. 660-97.
By Councilmen Jackson, Rybka
and Westbrook (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts to provide for the
demolition, removal or the boarding
up of structures within the City of
Cleveland. CDBG Year XXIII.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 661-97.
By Councilmen Jackson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to expend Community
Development Block Grant funds and
Federal HOME Program funds for
the administration of the Housing
Rehabilitation
Programs.
CDBG
Year XXII.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 662-97.
By Councilmen Jackson, Rybka
and Westbrook (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to expend Community
Development Block Grant funds for
administrative
expenses
of
the
Department of Community Development; and for reimbursement of nonprofit subrecipients for the cost of
the audits required by OMB Circular
A-133. CDBG Year XXIII.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 663-97.
By Councilmen Jackson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to expend Community
Development Block Grant funds and
UDAG Repayment funds for the
operation of the Storefront Renovation
Program
and
Neighborhood
Commercial Hub Program. CDBG
Year XXIII.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 664-97.
By Councilmen Jackson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authoriz-

The City Record
ing the Director of Community
Development to expend Community
Development Block Grant funds for
administrative expenses of the Code
Enforcement and Demolition Programs. CDBG Year XXIII.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Recommended by Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 666-97.
By Councilmen Johnson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
contract of not to exceed five vehicles, for the Division of Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Approved by Directors of Properties, Finance, Law; Recommended
by Committees on Public Parks,
Finance.
Ord. No. 786-97.
By Councilmen Coats, Rybka, and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland for
the rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of Bosworth Road and Harvard
Avenue to the County of Cuyahoga;
authorizing the Director of Public
Service to enter into any agreements
relative thereto; to apply for and
accept an allocation of County Motor
Vehicle License Tax Funds for the
improvements; and to authorize the
Director of Public Service to cause
payment of the City of Cleveland’s
share to the County of Cuyahoga for
its portion of said improvements.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Recommended by
Committees on Public Service, City
Planning, Finance.

61
northeast of the northeasterly corner line of Payne Avenue, N.E. and
East 38 Street); thence northwesterly along said southeasterly extension and along said northeasterly
line of said parcel of land for a distance of one hundred two and twenty five hundredths (102.25) feet;
thence from this point southwesterly to its intersection at a point on
the northeasterly line of East 38
Street measuring ninety and forty
nine hundredths (90.49) feet northwest of the intersection of the
southeasterly line of Payne Avenue,
N.E. and the northeasterly line of
East 38 Street and along its southwesterly extension to”.
Amendment agreed to.
Ord. No. 2219-96.
By Councilman Rybka.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of lands from E. 66 Street
to E. 65 Street between Hoppensack
Avenue, S.E. and Hubbard Avenue,
S.E. (Map Change No. 1923, Sheets
Nos. 5 & 6)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Recommended by Committee on City Planning.

Ord. No. 813-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
twelfth amendment to Lease Agreement No. 35620 to extend the term
of the existing Lease Agreement for
the rental of Broadway YMCA facilities at 11300 Miles Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Recommended by Committees
on Public Parks, Properties and
Recreation, Finance.

Ord. No. 23-97.
By Councilman Britt.
An ordinance to change the Use,
and Height Districts of lands on the
northerly side of Euclid Avenue
between E. 84 Street and E. 85
Street. (Map Change No. 1924, Sheet
No. 5)
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.
1. In the title, line one after “An”
insert “Emergency”.
2. Insert a whereas clause to read
as follows: “WHEREAS, this ordinance
constitutes
an
emergency
measure providing for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore”.
3. Strike Section 3 in its entirety
and insert in lieu thereof the following:
“Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.”.
Amendments agreed to.

SECOND READING
ORDINANCES

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED

Ord. No. 2218-96.
By Councilman Paulenske.
An ordinance to change the Use
and Area Districts of lands on the
north side of Payne Avenue between
E. 39 Street and E. 38 Street and the
north side of Payne between E. 39
Street and the railroad overpass.
(Map Change No. 1926, Sheets Nos 4
& 5)
Approved by Director of City Planning Cmmission, Law; Recommended by Committee on City Planning,
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 3, line 6, between “to”
and “its” insert the following: “its
intersection with the southeasterly
extension of the northeasterly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to
Omura Masayoshi and Sugako and
known as Permanent Parcel No. 10330-020 (said northeasterly line of
said parcel of land being located
approximately seventy one (71) feet

Ord. No. 845-97.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the submission to
the electors of the City of Cleveland
of an initiative petition proposing to
enact new Section 33-1 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, relating to limitations on the power of
Council to grant or consent to the
granting of an exemption from taxation for real or tangible personal
property.
Approved by Director of Law,
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 4, in Section
2, line 3, in Section 4, line 3, and in
Section 5, line 7, strike “November 4,
1997” and insert in lieu thereof
“August 5, 1997”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 21. Nays 0.

761

The City Record

62
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council before final passage.
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY RESOLUTION
Res. No. 439-97.
By Councilman Paulenske.
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of East 3rd Street.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Recommended
by Committees on Public Service,
Finance.
THIRD READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 113-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Rokakis
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to enter into one or
more contracts with Clean-Land,
Ohio to implement the City’s Recycling, Litter Prevention Education,
and Recycling Public Awareness
Program and waste reduction activities for 1997.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 431-97.
By
Councilmen
Robinson
and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health
to apply for and accept a grant
from
the
Ohio
Department
of
Health for the 1997 STD (Sexually
Transmitted Disease testing) program.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 432-97.
By
Councilmen
Robinson
and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of pharmaceutical supplies, for the Divisions of
Correction and Health, Department
of Public Health.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 569-97.
By Councilmen Polensek, Willis
and Westbrook (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 135.063, as amended by Ordinance No. 1309-96, passed September
30, 1996, relating to uniform maintenance allowances.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 620-97.
By
Councilmen
Polensek
and
Westbrook
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials necessary to remove barrels containing toxic traffic paint
materials and other services necessary to complete the remediation,
for the Division of Traffic Engineering and Parking, Department of
Public Safety.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 670-97.
By Councilmen Polensek and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to extend
the retirement dates of five Division
of Police employees for a one-year
period for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 671-97.
By Councilmen Robinson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the 1997 Hepatitis B Immunization
Activity Assistance Grant.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 724-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
and directing the purchase by requirement contract of various data entry
services to convert 1996 wage and tax
statements from paper documents and
magnetic tape to machine readable
magnetic tapes, for the Division of
Taxation, Department of Finance.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 725-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of plumbing
materials and supplies, for the various divisions of City government.
Read third time. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council adjourned at 9:00 p.m.
to meet on Monday, June 2, 1997.

First Assistant Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 1980-96.
By Councilmen Patton, Rybka and
Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of demolishing
certain obsolete water towers and
pump
stations;
authorizing
the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into contracts for the making of
such improvements; authorizing the
acquisition of various rights and
interests in said property; authorizing the relocation or modification of
fixtures on said property; and authorizing various professional service
contracts.
Ord. No. 2218-96.
By Councilman Paulenske.
An ordinance to change the Use and
Area Districts of lands on the north
side of Payne Avenue between E. 39
Street and E. 38 Street and the north
side of Payne between E. 39 Street
and the railroad overpass. (Map
Change No. 1926, Sheets Nos 4 & 5)

762

May 21, 1997
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of
lands bounded and described as follows,
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of the Pennsylvania
System Railroad tracks and the center line of Payne Avenue, N.E.;
thence southwesterly along said center line of Payne Avenue, N.E. to the
center line of East 39 Street; thence
northwesterly along said center line
of East 39 Street to the center line
of Lemar Avenue, N.E.; thence northeasterly along said center line of
Lemar Avenue, N.E. to said center
line of said Pennsylvania Systems
Railroad tracks; thence southeasterly along said center line of said
Pennsylvania
Systems
Railroad
tracks to the place of beginning,
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached, be and the same is
hereby changed to a ResidenceIndustry District.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 1926, Sheets Nos. 4 & 5
and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the
Clerk of Council and on file in the
office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for such purpose by the
City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That the Use and Area
Districts of lands bounded and
described as follows,
Beginning at the intersection of
the northeasterly extension of the
northwesterly line of Sublot No. 162
in the J. K. Hitchcock Allotment as
recorded in Volume 1, Page 27 of the
Cuyahoga County Map Records and
the center line of East 39 Street;
thence southeasterly along said center line of East 39 Street to the center line of Payne Avenue, N.E.;
thence southwesterly along said center line of Payne Avenue, N.E. to the
center line of East 38 Street; thence
northwesterly along said center line
of East 38 Street to its intersection
with the southeasterly extension of
the northeasterly line of a parcel of
land conveyed to Omura Masayoshi
and Sugako and known as Permanent Parcel No. 103-30-020 (said
northeasterly line of said parcel of
land being located approximately
seventy one (71) feet northeast of
the northeasterly corner line of
Payne Avenue, N.E. and East 38
Street); thence northwesterly along
said southeasterly extension and
along said northeasterly line of said
parcel of land for a distance of one
hundred two and twenty five hundredths (102.25) feet; thence from
this point southwesterly to its intersection at a point on the northeasterly line of East 38 Street measuring ninety and forty nine hundredths (90.49) feet northwest of the
intersection of the southeasterly line
of Payne Avenue, N.E. and the
northeasterly line of East 38 Street
and along its southwesterly extension to its intersection with the
southwesterly
extension
of
the
northwesterly line of Sublot No. 268
in said J. K. Hitchcock Allotment;
thence
northeasterly
along
said
southwesterly extension and along a
line of said Sublot No. 268 to its
intersection with the southwesterly
line of Sublot No. 159 in said J. K.
Hitchcock Allotment; thence southeasterly along said northwesterly
line of said Sublot No. 268 and continuing
southeasterly
along
the
southwesterly lines of Sublots Nos.
160 and 161 in said J. K. Hitchcock

May 21, 1997
Allotment to its intersection with
said northwesterly line of said
Sublot No. 162; thence northeasterly
along said northwesterly line of
said Sublot No. 162 and along its
northeasterly extension to the place
of beginning,
and as outlined in green on the map
hereto attached, be and the same is
hereby changed to a Multi-Family
Use District, and an ‘E’ Area District.
Section 4. That said changed designation of land described in Section
3 shall be identified as Map Change
No. 1926, Sheets Nos. 4 & 5 and shall
be made upon the Building Zone
Maps of the City of Cleveland on
file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 5. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 2219-96.
By Councilman Rybka.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of lands from E. 66 Street
to E. 65 Street between Hoppensack
Avenue, S.E. and Hubbard Avenue,
S.E. (Map Change No. 1923, Sheets
Nos. 5 & 6)
Ord. No. 23-97.
By Councilman Britt.
An
emergency
ordinance
to
change the Use, and Height Districts of lands on the northerly side
of Euclid Avenue between E. 84
Street
and
E.
85
Street.
(Map
Change No. 1924, Sheet No. 5)
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and
Height Districts of lands bounded
and described as follows,
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of East 85 Street and
the center line of Euclid Avenue;
thence northwesterly along said center line of Euclid Avenue to the center line of East 84 Street; thence
northerly along said center line of
East 84 Street to its intersection with
the westerly extension of a line
located forty four (44) feet south of
the northerly line of Sublot No. 1 in
the Fitch Raymond Subdivision as
recorded in Volume 5, Page 47 of the
Cuyahoga County Map Records (said
line being located approximately two
hundred fifty six (256) feet north of
the northerly line of Euclid Avenue);
thence easterly along said westerly
extension and along said line which
is parallel to and forty four (44) feet
south of said northerly line of said
Sublot No. 1 to its intersection with
a line located one hundred thirty
seven (137) feet east of the easterly
line of East 84 Street; thence southerly along said line which is parallel
to and one hundred thirty seven
(137) feet east of said easterly line
of East 84 Street to a point located
one hundred forty eight and eighty
one hundredths (148.81) feet north of
said northerly line of Euclid Avenue;
thence easterly from said point to a
point at the westerly line of East 85
Street located one hundred fifty four
and eighty five hundredths (184.85)
feet north of said northerly line of
Euclid Avenue and along its easterly extension to the center line of
East 85 Street; thence southerly
along said center line of East 85
Street to the place of beginning,

The City Record
and as outlined in red on the map
hereto attached, be and the same
are hereby changed to a Multi Family Use District and a ‘2’ Height District.
Section 2. That said changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map
Change No. 1924, Sheet No. 5 and
shall be made upon the Building
Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of
the City Planning Commission by
the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 211-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of in-line fuel
treatment devices for gasoline and
diesel engines, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Ord. No. 264-97.
By Councilmen Patton, Rybka and
Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of replacing a
sewer on Cooley Avenue, and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into contract for the
making of such improvement.
Ord. No. 274-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Port Control to enter into an agreement for the purchase of telephones
and related equipment, installation
and maintenance and purchase or
lease of installation, labor and
maintenance, as needed, of a voice
mail system, for the various division
of the Department of Port Control.
Ord. No. 324-97.
By Councilmen Coats, Rybka and
Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, Section 1 and Section 2 of
Ordinance No. 1004-91, passed July
24, 1991, relating to consent of the
City of Cleveland for participation
in the repair and resurfacing of
Rocky River Drive, thereto, to cause
payment of Cleveland’s share.
Ord. No. 328-97.
By Councilmen Jackson, Rybka
and Westbrook (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to appropriate property for the demolition
and redevelopment of the blighted
premises located at 2654 Lisbon
Road, Cleveland, Ohio.
Ord. No. 334-97.
By Councilmen Patton, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone
Agreement
with
NorthStar

763

63
Equipment Corp., or its designee, to
provide for a ten year abatement for
certain tangible personal property
and real estate taxes as an incentive to construct a new facility and
to purchase machinery and equipment for its facility which will be
located in the Cleveland Industrial
Park.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas,
NorthStar
Equipment
Corp. (the “Enterprise”) has proposed to construct a new facility
and to purchase machinery and
equipment for its facility to be located in the Cleveland Industrial Park;
and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement of personal property and real
estate taxes the Enterprise would be
at a competitive disadvantage by
operating at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and for
the further reason that its enactment
is a necessary prerequisite to providing immediate assistance to create and preserve job opportunities
and advance and promote commercial and economic development in the
City of Cleveland, such assistance
being immediately necessary or such
jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
approves
the
application
of
NorthStar Equipment Corp., or its
designee(s), provided that said designee(s) is wholly owned by NorthStar Equipment Corp. for enterprise
zone incentives on the basis that
NorthStar Equipment Corp. is qualified by financial responsibility and
business experience to create and
preserve employment opportunities
in the Cleveland Area Enterprise
Zone and to improve the economic
climate of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an Enterprise Zone Agreement
with
NorthStar
Equipment
Corp., or its designee(s), provided
that said designee(s) is wholly
owned by NorthStar Equipment Corp.
to provide for a ten (10) year abatement for certain tangible personal
property and real estate taxes as an
incentive to construct a new facility
and to purchase machinery and
equipment at their facility which
will be located in the Cleveland
Industrial
Park;
said
abatement
shall not be transferrable or assignable by the enterprise to any entity
without the prior authorization by
this council, and said abatement
shall be subject to annual review of
the Tax Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 334-97-A.

64
On page (4) of said Executive
Summary, “development recommendation” number three (3) is deleted
in its entirety, and the following
provision is inserted in its place:
That NorthStar Equipment Corporation shall use its best efforts to
employ 25% of the new hires from
Ward 1, and the remainder of City
of Cleveland hires from other City
wards.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund
including provisions prohibiting (a)
the Enterprise from assigning or
transferring its rights under the
Agreement to any entity without
first
receiving
the
approval
of
Cleveland City Council, and (b)
changing the terms of the abatement without first receiving the
approval of Cleveland City Council,
which approvals shall be evidence
by appropriate legislation.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 381-97.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 39th Place, hereinafter described.
Ord. No. 382-97.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 69th Street and
East
70th
Street,
hereinafter
described.
Ord. No. 388-97.
By Councilmen Patton, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at the southeast corner of
the intersection of Johnston Parkway and Seville Avenue to NorthStar
Equipment Corp., or its designee.
Ord. No. 389-97.
By Councilman Paulenske.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of King Court N.E., hereinafter described.
Ord. No. 394-97.
By Councilmen Paulenske, Jackson, Rybka and Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to lease real property
located south and adjacent to the
Main Avenue Bridge west of West
Ninth Street and a platform attached
and located underneath the Main
Avenue Bridge from the Board of

The City Record
County Commissioners of Cuyahoga
County, and to then lease all or part
of that same real property to the
National Terminals Apartments Limited Liability Company, or its designee, for a term not to exceed fifty
years to make parking available in
support of a housing development
project.
Ord. No. 421-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
employ one or more firms of certified engineers, to provide professional services to perform geotechnical engineering, material testing,
environmental assessments and construction inspection services for various public improvement projects.
Ord. No. 423-97.
By Councilmen Johnson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation & Properties to enter into a
Concession Agreement with Holy
Moses Water Taxi. In exchange for
docking and operating privileges
from the Settler’s Landing site, Holy
Moses Water Taxi will be responsible for the maintenance of the area
from Settler’s Landing, west of the
RTA tracks, between St. Clair and
Veteran’s Memorial Bridge.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Parks,
Recreation & Properties is hereby
authorized and directed to enter into
a Concession Agreement with Holy
Moses Water Taxi. In exchange for
docking and operating privileges for
the purpose of transporting, by
watercraft, the general public to
and from the east bank of the Cuyahoga River at the northern tip of
Settler’s Landing at the St. Clair
Avenue right of way and to and
from the west bank of the Cuyahoga
River, Holy Moses Water Taxi will
empty
rubbish
containers
twice
daily or as necessary, dispose of the
rubbish via their trash receptacle
located at their permanent docking
facility at 1281 Main Avenue; pick
up all litter and debris daily or as
necessary;
clean
bird
droppings
from railings and walkways at least
twice weekly with a pressure washer or other suitable means; remove
debris from fountain area daily or
as needed; secure life rings as needed, report any missing rings to Park
Maintenance. Holy Moses Water
Taxi’s maintenance responsibilities
include, and are limited to, Settler’s
Landing west of the RTA tracks,
between St. Clair and Veteran’s
Memorial Bridge. The term shall
commence on April 1, 1997 and shall
expire on October 31, 1998.
That the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties shall provide
an annual report to the Council on
services rendered by Holy Moses
Water Taxi pursuant to its contract.
Section 2. That the Concession
Agreement authorized herein shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
and shall contain such additional
provisions as he/she deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.

764

May 21, 1997
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 434-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control
to employ one or more consultants
or firms of consultants, to provide
professional
services
necessary
for
testing
and
construction
inspection services, for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control.
Ord. No. 535-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase
by requirement contract of labor
and materials needed to repair and
replace automotive, truck and construction equipment glass, including
related mechanical repairs, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Ord. No. 536-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials needed to repair and maintain generators, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Ord. No. 537-97.
By Councilman Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of labor and
materials necessary to repair and
maintain heavy duty construction
equipment, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Ord. No. 538-97.
By Councilman Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of Ford passenger car parts, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Ord. No. 539-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of Ford tractor, mower and construction equipment parts, including labor if necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Ord. No. 540-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of International truck parts, including installation
if necessary, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.

May 21, 1997
Ord. No. 541-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of oil and filter changes, valve body recalibration, and rebuilt automatic Allison
transmissions, including installation
if necessary, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Ord. No. 542-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of tire repair
road service, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Ord. No. 543-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement
contract
of
various
types of batteries, for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Service.
Ord. No. 544-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase
by requirement contract of labor
and materials necessary to repair or
replace the fuel dispensing pumps
and systems necessary for fuel operations, fuel tankers, hydraulic lifts,
oil and grease dispensing equipment, stationary air compressor,
and for emergency cleanup and
replacement
of
leaking
underground storage tanks and systems,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance. Department of Public
Service.
Ord. No. 545-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of Chevrolet
car, van, light, medium and heavy
duty truck parts, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Ord. No. 546-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of Cushman
equipment parts, including labor if
necessary, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Ord. No. 550-97.
By Councilmen Patton, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
NorthStar Equipment Corp., or its
designee, to provide economic development
assistance
to
partially
finance the land acquisition and
construction of a commercial/industrial building to be located in the
Cleveland Industrial Park.
Ord. No. 559-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to

The City Record
apply for and accept FAA grant
funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
apply for and accept grants from
the United States of America, acting
through its Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), to fund projects
related to the operations of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
and Burke Lakefront Airport. The
Director is further authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents necessary to apply for, accept
and receive funds under said grants;
provided that the City shall follow
all applicable federal regulations,
required by the FAA; and that any
grant funds be and are hereby
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the applications for said
grants, or any amendments thereto,
provided that no funds may be
expended unless the project or purpose has been first specifically
authorized by ordinance of Council.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is further authorized to
pay cash match funds for projects
approved by the FAA for grant
funding. Said matching funds shall
be paid from funds appropriated for
the use of the Department of Port
Control and any existing or future
revenue bond funds, grant proceeds
and PFC authorizations.
Section 3. That the Director shall
send notice to the Clerk of Council,
the members of Council from Wards
20 and 21, and each member of the
Aviation and Transportation Committee each time a grant is applied
for under this ordinance, and each
time
any
matching
funds
are
expended in excess of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000) in accordance with
this ordinance.
That the Director of Port Control
shall provide a quarterly report to
the members of Council on public
improvement and professional services contracts entered into pursuant to this ordinance and payable
from the fund or funds to which are
credited grant proceeds accepted
pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 4. That the provisions of
this
ordinance
shall
expire
on
December 31, 1998.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 560-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to authorize the Director of Port Control to
enter into amendments to certain
leases with various signatory airlines at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; and to further authorize the Director to enter into an
Assignment and Novation with the
following: United Airlines, Inc. and
Continental Airlines, Inc. to release
United Airlines, Inc. from all duties
and liabilities relative to its flight
operations facility under Contract
No. 30841 and to substitute Conti-

765

65
nental Airlines, Inc. under said contract; USAir, Inc. and Continental
Airlines, Inc. to release USAir, Inc.
from all duties and liabilities relative to Gates A-2, A-4, A-6, A-9 and
A-11 and associated support and
operations space under City Contract No. 28672, and to substitute
Continental Airlines, Inc. under said
contract; and Continental Airlines,
Inc. and TWA, Inc. to release Continental Airlines, Inc. from all duties
and liabilities relative to Gates A-2,
A-4 and A-6 and associated support
and operations space under City
Contract No. 28672, and to substitute
TWA, Inc. under said contract, subject to TWA, Inc. demonstrating to
the City the need for the use of all
such gates.
Ord. No. 571-97.
By
Councilmen
Polensek
and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
requirement contract of materials
necessary to fabricate and install
enlarged street name signs throughout the City of Cleveland, and other
equipment and materials necessary
for the production and installation
therefor, for the Division of Traffic
Engineering and Parking, Department of Public Safety for a two year
period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of two years for the necessary
items of materials necessary to fabricate and install enlarged street
name signs throughout the City of
Cleveland, and other equipment and
materials necessary for the production and installation therefor, in
the estimated sum of $500,000.00, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Traffic
Engineering
and
Parking,
Department of Public Safety. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as
to permit an award to be made for
all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less
than two years may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire two
year period.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
20468)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

66
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 615-97.
By Councilmen Coats and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to enter into contract
without competitive bidding with
E.J. Ward, Inc. for the purchase of
spare replacement parts for the fuel
control terminals and for telephone
consultation needed to maintain the
terminals, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service.
Ord. No. 618-97.
By Councilmen Johnson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
enter into contract with Clean-Land
Ohio, to conduct a vacant lot maintenance program for the Division of
Park Maintenance and Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Ord. No. 624-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Port Control to enter into contract
with Malcolm Pirnie, Inc. for various environmental services, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control.
Ord. No. 625-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more surveyors or
firms of surveyors to provide professional services necessary to survey various parcels or portions of
parcels of land.
Ord. No. 627-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Finance, for the Cleveland Municipal Court, to enter into contract
with the Legal Aid Society of Cleveland for legal services necessary to
defend indigents charged with violation of ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, provided such violation
may result in incarceration, for the
Cleveland Municipal Court.
Whereas, in Argersinger v. Hamlin and Scott v. Illinois, the United
States Supreme Court held that no
indigent criminal defendant may be
sentenced to a term of imprisonment
unless he has been afforded the
right to assistance of appointed
counsel in his defense; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
through the Cleveland Municipal
Court, is therefore obligated to provide an indigent defendant appointed counsel in order to permit the
imposition of a sentence including a
term of imprisonment; and
Whereas, it is the recommendation
of the Cleveland Municipal Court,
the district of which encompasses
Bratenahl and the City of Cleveland,
that such indigent defense should be
provided by the Legal Aid Society of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

The City Record
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, for the Cleveland Municipal Court, is hereby authorized and
directed to enter into contract with
the Legal Aid Society of Cleveland
for
legal
services
necessary
to
defend indigents charged with violation of ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, provided such violation
may result in incarceration, for the
period of one year beginning January 1, 1997 through December 31,
1997,
at
the
estimated
cost
of
$753,000.00, payable from Fund No.
01-01-15-0320, Request No. 21816.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 658-97.
By Councilmen Britt, Jackson and
Westbrook
(by
departmental
request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend Section 1 and 2 of Ordinance
No. 81-96, passed April 1, 1996 relating to a contract with Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation, or its designee, for economic
development assistance to partially
finance the acquisition of land in
the Fairfax neighborhood and to
finance the construction of new
housing.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 81-96 passed April 1,
1996 are hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation, or its designee, to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition of land in the Fairfax neighborhood between Cedar Avenue to
the north, Quincy Avenue to the
south, East 84th Street to the west,
and East 89th Street to the east, and
to finance the construction on said
land of forty nine residential homes,
Cleveland, Ohio. That the Director
of Economic Development is authorized to enter into a contract, or to
amend any existing contract, with
Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation, or its designee, to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition of land for the Villas At
Woodhaven project in accordance
with the terms of the Executive
Summary referenced in Section 2 of
this ordinance.
Section 2. That the term of said
loan shall be accordance with the
terms as set forth in the Executive
Summary contained in File No. 8196-B.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
and 2 of Ordinance No. 81-96, passed
April 1, 1996 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

766

May 21, 1997
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 660-97.
By Councilmen Jackson, Rybka
and Westbrook (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts to provide for the
demolition, removal or the boarding
up of structures within the City of
Cleveland. CDBG Year XXIII.
Ord. No. 661-97.
By Councilmen Jackson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to expend Community
Development Block Grant funds and
Federal HOME Program funds for
the administration of the Housing
Rehabilitation
Programs.
CDBG
Year XXII.
Ord. No. 662-97.
By Councilmen Jackson, Rybka
and Westbrook (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to expend Community
Development Block Grant funds for
administrative
expenses
of
the
Department of Community Development; and for reimbursement of nonprofit subrecipients for the cost of
the audits required by OMB Circular
A-133. CDBG Year XXIII.
Ord. No. 663-97.
By Councilmen Jackson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to expend Community
Development Block Grant funds and
UDAG Repayment funds for the
operation of the Storefront Renovation
Program
and
Neighborhood
Commercial Hub Program. CDBG
Year XXIII.
Ord. No. 664-97.
By Councilmen Jackson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to expend Community
Development Block Grant funds for
administrative expenses of the Code
Enforcement and Demolition Programs. CDBG Year XXIII.
Ord. No. 666-97.
By Councilmen Johnson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase by
contract of not to exceed five vehicles, for the Division of Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Ord. No. 786-97.
By Councilmen Coats, Rybka, and
Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
consent of the City of Cleveland for
the rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of Bosworth Road and Harvard
Avenue to the County of Cuyahoga;
authorizing the Director of Public
Service to enter into any agreements
relative thereto; to apply for and
accept an allocation of County Motor

May 21, 1997
Vehicle License Tax Funds for the
improvements; and to authorize the
Director of Public Service to cause
payment of the City of Cleveland’s
share to the County of Cuyahoga for
its portion of said improvements.
RESOLUTION
Res. No. 439-97.
By Councilman Paulenske.
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of East 3rd Street.

BOARD OF CONTROL
May 14, 1997
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, May 14, 1997,
at 11:00 a.m., with Mayor White presiding.
Present: Mayor White, Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Directors Sheehan, Richiutto,
Directors Staib, Denihan, Spellman,
Hamilton, Acting Directors Torres,
Sullivan and Director Lynch.
Absent: None.
Others: William Moon, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies,
Barry
Withers,
Acting
Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolution was adopted.
Resolution No. 352-97.
By Director Carmody.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the
bids received on April 30, 1997 for
Fleet Washing for the Various Division of City Government for the
Department of Finance pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 25896 passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland On June 18, 1996 be and
the same are hereby rejected.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Directors Sheehan, Richiutto,
Directors Staib, Denihan, Spellman,
Hamilton, Acting Directors Torres,
Sullivan and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 353-97.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No. 13297, adopted March 5, 1997, pursuant
to the authority of Section 129.25 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, approving the bid
of American Municipal Supplies as
lowest and best for ductile iron pipe
and fittings, items 14, 16-19, 35, 36,
43, 45, 47 and 55, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, is hereby amended by deleting
“(2% 30 days)” and adding “(Net 30
days)”.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 132-97 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Director Sheehan, Directors
Staib, Denihan, Spellman, Hamilton,
Acting Directors Torres, Sullivan
and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: Acting Director Richiutto.
Resolution No. 354-97.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Richmond Valve & Pipe

The City Record
Company, Inc. for an estimated
quantity of valves & appurtenances
(items 1, 4, 5, 8-11, 43-48, 50, 52-60, 63,
64, 67-73, 99, 100-105, 107-109, 111 and
112) for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for
the period of one (1) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract received on the 5th day of February, 1997, pursuant to the authority of Section 129.25 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to Two Hundred Five Thousand One Hundred
Eighty Five
and
50/100
Dollars
($205,185.50)
(Net)
is
hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby requested
to enter into a requirement contract
for such commodities, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 00529
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Eighty
Thousand Dollars ($80,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Director Sheehan, Directors
Staib, Denihan, Spellman, Hamilton,
Acting Directors Torres, Sullivan
and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: Acting Director Richiutto.
Resolution No. 355-97.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of E.H. Wachs Co. for the
following: one (1) trailer mounted
vacuum system (all items) for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, received on the 2nd
day of April, 1997, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 19-97,
passed February 10, 1997, which on
the basis of order quantities would
amount to Thirty Four Thousand
Two
Hundred
Sixty
Dollars
($34,260.00)
(Net)
is
hereby
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is hereby requested to enter into
contract for such items.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Director Sheehan, Directors
Staib, Denihan, Spellman, Hamilton,
Acting Directors Torres, Sullivan
and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: Acting Director Richiutto.
Resolution No. 356-97.
By Director Cunningham.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Dicar Corporation for the following: Bunker suits and additional
auxiliary gear (Item Nos. 1, 2, 4 and
5) for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport,
Department of Port Control, received
on the 29th day of January, 1997,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1449-96, passed September
30, 1996, which on the basis of order
quantity would amount to $14,316.00
is hereby approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is hereby requested to
enter into contract for such items.

767

67
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Director Sheehan, Directors
Staib, Denihan, Spellman, Hamilton,
Acting Directors Torres, Sullivan
and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: Acting Director Richiutto.
Resolution No. 357-97.
By Director Cunningham.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Finley Fire Equipment Company,
Inc. for the following: Bunker suits
and additional auxiliary gear (Item
No. 6) for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport,
Department of Port Control, received on the 29th day of January,
1997, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1449-96, passed September 30, 1996, which on the basis
of order quantity would amount to
$1,539.12 is hereby approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director
of
Port
Control
is
hereby
requested to enter into contract for
such items.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Director Sheehan, Directors
Staib, Denihan, Spellman, Hamilton,
Acting Directors Torres, Sullivan
and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: Acting Director Richiutto.
Resolution No. 358-97.
By Director Cunningham.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Cleveland Fire Distributors, Inc.
for the following: Bunker suits and
additional auxiliary gear (Item No.
3) for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport,
Department of Port Control, received
on the 29th day of January, 1997,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1449-96, passed September
30, 1996, which on the basis of order
quantity would amount to $624.00 is
hereby approved as the lowest and
best bid, and the Director of Port
Control is hereby requested to enter
into contract for such items.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Director Sheehan, Directors
Staib, Denihan, Spellman, Hamilton,
Acting Directors Torres, Sullivan
and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: Acting Director Richiutto.
Resolution No. 359-97.
By Director Guzman.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Columbus Equipment Co. for an
estimated quantity of Galion equipment parts and labor if necessary
(all items) (labor rate of $52.00 per
hr.) for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department
of
Public Service, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract received on
the April 18, 1997, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 2027-96,
passed December 16, 1996, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would
amount
to
approximately
Forty thousand and no/100 Dollars,
($40,000.00) (2%-20 Days) is hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director
of Public Service is hereby requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:

68
Requisition No. 092353
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Four
thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($4,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Directors Sheehan, Richiutto,
Directors Staib, Denihan, Spellman,
Hamilton, Acting Directors Torres,
Sullivan and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 360-97.
By Director Denihan.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that the bid
of A-1 Restoration, Inc. for the public improvement of Masonry Repairs
at Fire Engine House #43, for the
Division of Fire, Department of Public Safety, received on April 3, 1997,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1028-93, passed June 7,
1993, for a gross price for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of Fourteen thousand, nine
hundred eighty nine and 00/100 Dollars ($14,989.00), is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Public
Safety is hereby authorized to enter
into contract for said improvement
with said bidder.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Directors Sheehan, Richiutto,
Directors Staib, Denihan, Spellman,
Hamilton, Acting Directors Torres,
Sullivan and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 361-97.
By Director Denihan.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Costigan’s Office Supply Inc., base bid only, for the public improvement of providing new
furniture for the Third District
Police Station, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety,
received on May 1, 1997, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 205391, passed February 24, 1992, for a
gross price for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of Three Hundred Eleven Thousand One Hundred
Twenty Eight and 98/100 Dollars
($311,128.98) is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid; and the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to enter into
contract for said improvement with
said bidder.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Directors Sheehan, Richiutto,
Directors Staib, Denihan, Spellman,
Hamilton, Acting Directors Torres,
Sullivan and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 362-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76, passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and

The City Record
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 009-01-031, westerly one half,
located at 2407-09 Denison Avenue in
Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, when directed by the Director
of Community Development
and when certain specified conditions have been met, to sell Land
Reutilization Program parcels to
adjacent or abutting landowners;
and
Whereas, John W. Hickey, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Codes; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland with John W.
Hickey for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 009-01-031,
westerly one half, located at 2407-09
Denison Avenue, in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said Program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Directors Sheehan, Richiutto,
Directors Staib, Denihan, Spellman,
Hamilton, Acting Directors Torres,
Sullivan and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 363-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76, passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 009-01-031, easterly one half,
located at 2407-09 Denison Avenue in
Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio
1976
authorizes
the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, when directed by the Director
of
Community
Development
and
when certain specified conditions
have been met, to sell Land Reutilization Program parcels to adjacent
or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, George Sevastos, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:

768

May 21, 1997
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Codes; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland with George Sevastos for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 009-01-031,
easterly one half, located at 2407-09
Denison Avenue, in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said Program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Directors Sheehan, Richiutto,
Directors Staib, Denihan, Spellman,
Hamilton, Acting Directors Torres,
Sullivan and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 364-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76, passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 126-08-036 located at 9110 Beckman Avenue in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio
1976
authorizes
the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, when directed by the Director
of
Community
Development
and
when certain specified conditions
have been met, to sell Land Reutilization Program parcels to adjacent
or abutting landowners; and
Whereas,
Linda
Stone,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Codes; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that pursuant to Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development, and the
Mayor is hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
Linda Stone for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No.

May 21, 1997
126-08-036 located at 9110 Beckman
Avenue, in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said Program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00,
which
amount
is
hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Directors Sheehan, Richiutto,
Directors Staib, Denihan, Spellman,
Hamilton, Acting Directors Torres,
Sullivan and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 365-97.
By Director Hamilton.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76, passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 119-32-007 located at 2285 East 86
Street in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, when directed by the Director
of
Community
Development
and when certain specified conditions have been met, to sell Land
Reutilization Program parcels to
adjacent or abutting landowners;
and
Whereas,
Johnnie
and
Daray
Broadus,
abutting/adjacent
landowners, have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcel;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Codes; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland with Johnnie and
Daray Broadus for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 119-32-007 located at 2285 East 86
Street, in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
said Program.
Be it further resolved that the
consideration for said parcel shall
be $1.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with said Program.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Directors Sheehan, Richiutto,
Directors Staib, Denihan, Spellman,
Hamilton, Acting Directors Torres,
Sullivan and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.

The City Record
Resolution No. 366-97.
By Director Spellman.
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation, and Properries is authorized by 183.04 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances to enter into an
agreement granting the privilege of
rendering services to the public to
enhance the enjoyment of the facilities; and
Whereas, pursuant to 183.04 of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances the
Board of Control may authorize such
use; and
Whereas,
MLB
Properties,
Inc
through Party Planners West, Inc.,
has requested permission to use
Mall C for various activities from
July 1, 1997 through July 13, 1997,
in conjunction with the 1997 MLB
FanFest being held at the Cleveland Convention Center; now, therefore
Be it resolved, that the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties, is
hereby authorized pursuant to Section 183.04 to enter into a concession
agreement with MLB Properties,
Inc. for its use of Mall C for various activities associated with the
1997 MLB FanFest from July 1, 1997
through July 13, 1997.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that a rental rate of
Twenty
Five
Thousand
Dollars
($25,000) is to be charged to the
MLBProperties, Inc. for its use of
Mall C from July 1 through July 13,
1997 for various activities for 1997
MLBFanFest. No parking shall be
permitted in this area during this
time.
Be
it
further
resolved,
that
notwithstanding the provisions of
any prior Board of Control resolution, the rental rate, terms, and conditions set forth in this resolution
shall apply only to the agreement
with MLB Properties, Inc. for the
purposes and the use described herein.
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Directors Sheehan, Richiutto,
Directors Staib, Denihan, Spellman,
Hamilton, Acting Directors Torres,
Sullivan and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None.
Resolution No. 367-97.
By Director Spellman.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Independence Excavating, Inc., City
Contract No. 51425, pursuant to Ordinance No. 305-96 passed on March 8,
1996, and Board of Control Resolution No. 317-97, adopted April 25,
1997, for the new Cleveland Browns
Stadium mass excavation and pilings, hereby is approved:
Central Engineering Co.
MBE — $210,000
Obon Trucking
MBE — $50,000
Ramos Trucking
MBE — $540,000
Yeas:
Mayor
White,
Directors
Sobol Jordan, Carmody, Konicek,
Acting Directors Sheehan, Richiutto,
Directors Staib, Denihan, Spellman,
Hamilton, Acting Directors Torres,
Sullivan and Director Lynch.
Nays: None.
Absent: None
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

769

69
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
FREDDIE J. FENDERSON,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JUNE 2, 1997
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 97-106: 614 Literary Rd.
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-107: 600 Literary Rd.
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
31' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 3100 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement of, 40' only (31' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04, and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-108: 604 Literary Rd.
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area

70
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-109: 608 Literary Rd.
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-110: 610 Literary Rd.
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-111: 2192 West 6th
Street
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-112: 2188 West 6th
Street
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.

The City Record
Calendar No. 97-113: 2184 West 6th
Street
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-114: 2177 West 7th
Street
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-115: 2185 West 7th
Street
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-116: 2193 West 7th
Street
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-117: 618 Literary Rd.
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' pro-

770

May 21, 1997
vided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-118: 622 Literary Rd.
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-119: 2189 W. 7th St.
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-120: 612 Literary Rd.
Tremont Ridge Phase I Limited
Partnership, owner, request to erect
a 20' x 40' 3 story dwelling on a
25' x 100' vacant lot located in a BMulti-Family District; said request
being contrary to the lot area
requirement of 4800 square feet
(providing 2500 square feet) and
also contrary to the lot width
requirement, of 40' only (25' provided), of Section 355.05, and contrary to the front yard and sideyard
requirements of Sections 357.04 and
357.09 and said request being contrary
to
the
building
distance
requirement of 10' from an adjoining lot of Section 357.09 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-105: 6208 Flowerdale
Ave.
Marwan
Al
Tabbaas,
owner,
request to erect a new 24' x 52' 2
story wood frame single family
dwelling with attached garage on
the 35' x 100' vacant lot located in
a Two Family District; said request
being 7' instead of the 10' from the
adjacent dwelling located at 6212
Flowerdale Ave., which is contrary
to Section 357.09(b)(2) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 97-98: 12301 Fairview
Ct.
Fred Jurek, owner, request to
erect a 18' x 16' addition (bedroom)
on the second floor of the One Family dwelling unit located on the lot
in a General Retail Use District;
said use being contrary to the
expansion limitations and subject to
the Board approval authority of Section 359.01(a) of the Codified Ordinances.

The City Record

May 21, 1997
Calendar No. 97-103; 13016 Kinsman
Ave.
Pleasant Now Development Corp.
c/o Hugh Kidd, owner, request to
use as 17 single occupancy rooms or
apartments the former Motel located
in a Local Retail District; said
request being contrary to the off
street parking requirements, (providing 5 spaces required 17), of Section 349.04(g) of the Codified Ordinances.
HUNTER MORRISON,
Acting Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 19, 1997
At the Meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals, on, Monday, May 12,
1997, the following appeals were
heard by the Board, and decided on
Monday, May 19, 1997.
The following appeals were Granted:
Calendar No. 97-77: 797 East 185th
Street.
Kai W. Leung and Kwun M.
Leung, owners, to convert to a 78
seat restaurant the 27' x 82' one
story store building.
The following appeals were Dismissed:
Calendar No. 97-78: 1150-1154 East
71st Street.
Calendar No. 97-80: 4744 Lorain
Avenue.
HUNTER MORRISON,
Acting Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
May 14, 1997
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the following brief
of action the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*

*

*

Docket L-4-97.
RE: Appeal of Gary Amberik,
from a LETTER OF DENIAL FOR
RENEWAL OF ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR LICENSE of the Commissioner of the Division of Assessments and Licenses dated April 21,
1997, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is
in order at this time to permit Mr.
Amberik to renew his ELECTRICAL
CONTRACTOR
LICENSE
without retaking the test, but with
payment of the late filing fees.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Bowes and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.

Docket L-5-97.
RE: Appeal of Julee Hottois, from
a LETTER OF DENIAL FOR RENEWAL OF JOURNEYMAN PLUMBER LICENSE of the Commissioner
of the Division of Assessments and
Licenses dated April 24, 1997, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to permit Ms. Hottois to renew her JOURNEYMAN
PLUMBER LICENSE without retaking the test and without payment of
the late filing fees. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and
seconded by Mr. Bowes.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket L-6-97.
RE: Appeal of James O. Dyson,
from a LETTER OF DENIAL FOR
RENEWAL OF MASTER PLUMBER
LICENSE of the Commissioner of
the Division of Assessments and
Licenses dated April 24, 1997, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to permit Mr.
Dyson
to
renew
his
MASTER
PLUMBER LICENSE without retaking the test and without payment of
the late filing fees. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and
seconded by Mr. Bowes.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-35-97.
RE: Appeal of Ronald Schueneman, Owner of the Residential Property and Swimming Pool located on
the premises known as 4575 Niessen
Avenue from a NOTICE OF NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and
Housing dated February 5, 1997,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the pool to remain
where it is installed, in view of the
testimony from the Executive Secretary. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bowes and seconded by Mr.
Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-46-97.
RE:
Appeal
of
Ella
Omilian,
Owner of the Residential Property
located on the premises known as
3966 East 64th Street from a CONDEMNATION ORDER of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing dated February 26,
1997, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to REMAND the
property at 3966 East 64th Street to
the Division of Building and Housing for supervision and further

771

71
action, with the understanding that
it will be boarded and secured and
the grounds will be maintained
debris free during the period of probation. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Bowes.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-48-97.
RE: Appeal of Republic Savings
Bank, Mortgagee of the Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 1827-29 Colonnade Avenue
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER of
the Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing dated March
17, 1997, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
Docket A-48-97 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for a
later date.
*

*

*

Docket A-49-97.
RE: Appeal of Leader Mortgage
Company, Mortgagee of the Residential Property located on the
premises known as 3834 West 166th
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated March 17, 1997, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to modify the
Commissioner’s
CONDEMNATION
NOTICE and LETTER OF INTENTION TO DEMOLISH by granting
the Appellant three months (3 mos.)
in which to obtain permits and
abate the violations, and to require
that the property remain boarded
and secured and the grounds debris
free during that period of time.
Upon passage of this motion, this
matter shall be REMANDED to the
Commissioner of the Division of
Building and Housing at the end of
that time for supervision and further action. All other provisions of
the CONDEMNATION NOTICE and
LETTER OF INTENT TO DEMOLISH not modified by this decision
shall remain in full force and effect,
including the provisions that the
City may abate the nuisance conditions of the premises by means of
demolition if abatement of the violations is not completed by August
28,
1997.
Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-50-97.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland Reclaim
Industries, Inc. dba Turtle Plastics,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 2366 Woodhill Road from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION - FIRE CODE of the Chief
of the Division of Fire dated March
5, 1997, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant three months (3 mos.) in

The City Record

72
which to either activate the sprinkler system in the areas where the
combustibles
are
located,
or
to
remove the combustibles from the
premises and secure the building in
a manner satisfactory to the Fire
Prevention Bureau. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and
seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
*

*

BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the ten foot (10 ft.) requirement and permit the pool to be
installed four feet (4 ft.) from the
property line, noting the concurrence of the adjacent neighbors.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Bowes and seconded by Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.

*
*

Docket A-51-97.
RE: Appeal of C. Burris Construction, Inc. and McDevitt Mechanical
Contractors, Inc., Contractors for the
Property located on the premises
known as 10900 Euclid Avenue
(CWRU) from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated March 10, 1997, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
Docket A-51-97 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for a
later date.
*

*

*

Docket A-54-97.
RE: Appeal of Chemical Residential Mortgage Corp., Mortgagee of
the Residential Property located on
the premises known as 7413 Aetna
Road
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
dated March 12, 1997, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to modify the
Commissioner’s
CONDEMNATION
NOTICE and LETTER OF INTENTION TO DEMOLISH by granting
the Appellant a three months (3
mos.) Extension of Time, to require
that the property remain secured
and the grounds debris free during
that period of time. Upon passage of
this motion, this matter shall be
REMANDED to the Commissioner of
the Division of Building and Housing at the end of that time for supervision and further action. All other
provisions of the CONDEMNATION
NOTICE and LETTER OF INTENT
TO DEMOLISH not modified by this
decision shall remain in full force
and effect, including the provisions
that the City may abate the nuisance conditions of the premises by
means of demolition if abatement of
the violations is not completed by
August 28, 1997. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Bowes.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-55-97.
RE: Appeal of Jacqueline Woody,
Owner of the Residential Property
and Proposed Swimming Pool located on the premises known as 3798
West 38th Street from a NOTICE OF
NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated April 4, 1997,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).

*

*

Docket A-56-97.
RE: Appeal of Othell Chanceller,
Owner of the Residential Property
located on the premises known as
7817 Holton Avenue from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION - NEC of the Commissioner of the Division of Building and Housing dated March 7,
1997, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two weeks (2 wks.) in
which to obtain electrical permits,
and three months (3 mos.) in which
to abate the violations; the property
is
to
remain
boarded
and
the
grounds debris free during that period of time. The property may be
occupied with the approval of the
electrical inspector and the establishment of proper sanitary facilities, and to REMAND the property
at this time to the Division of Building and Housing for supervision.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Bowes and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.

May 21, 1997
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant four weeks (4 wks.) in
which to remove the operating
paint line; shutting down the paint
line and removing any combustibles
and securing the building in a manner agreeable with the Fire Prevention Bureau, with the understanding that subsequent tenant
occupancy shall be subject to the
approval of the Fire Prevention
Bureau.
Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned by Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr. Williams.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
*

*
*

*

*

*

Docket A-59-97.
RE: Appeal of Aetna Properties
Inc., Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 3603 East
82nd Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION - FIRE CODE of the Chief
of the Division of Fire dated March
13, 1997, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic
Building Code (OBBC).

772

*

*

*

*

Docket A-58-97.
RE: Appeal of Thomas P. and
Cynthia J. Smith, Owners of the
Residential
Property
and
Swimming Pool located on the premises
known as 13525 Sprecher Avenue
from a NOTICE OF NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of the
Division of Building and Housing
revised January 10, 1997, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
and the Ohio Basic Building Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the ten foot (10 ft.) requirement and permit the pool to remain
five feet (5 ft.) from the property
line, but to DENY the Appellant’s
request for waiver of the late filing
fees, noting that the owner installed
the pool himself. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
*

*

Docket A-84-97.
RE: Appeal of Timothy Grinnell
and Cheryl Wise, Owners of the Residential
Property
and
Proposed
Swimming
Pool
located
on
the
premises known as 4491 West 30th
Street from a NOTICE OF NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of
the Division of Building and Housing dated April 24, 1997, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and
the
Ohio
Basic
Building
Code
(OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is
in order at this time to grant the
variance to the ten foot (10 ft.)
requirement, and permit the pool
to be installed four feet (4 ft.)
from the property line, noting the
concurrence
of
the
neighbors.
Motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Sullivan and seconded by Mr.
Bowes.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.

Docket A-86-97.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland Public
Library, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
325 Superior Avenue from a ADJUDICATION
ORDER/SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated April 9, 1997,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the requirement for a second means of egress (OBBC Section
1006.2.1), noting that the electronically secured doors serving as a second
means
of
egress
will
be
released in case of a fire or an emergency. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Sullivan.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Sullivan. Nays: None. Absent: Messrs.
Bowes, Williams.
*

*

*

Docket A-87-97.
RE: Appeal of Herb and June Uffman, Owners of the Residential
Property and Swimming Pool located on the premises known as 705
Colonel Drive from a NOTICE OF
NONCONFORMANCE of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated April 29, 1997,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).

The City Record

May 21, 1997
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at the time to grant the variance to the ten foot (10 ft.) requirement and permit the pool to remain
as installed, noting the concurrence
of
all
the
adjacent
neighbors.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Williams and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Bowes, Williams,
Saunders,
Sullivan.
Nays:
None.
*

*

*

Docket A-97-97.
RE: Appeal of Harbor Heritage
Society, Owner of the Property located on the premises known as 1001
East 9th Street from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the Commissioner of the Division of Building
and Housing dated April 10, 1997,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, and the Ohio Basic Building
Code (OBBC).
No action.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr.
Saunders for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolution as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC):
A-25-97—Michael P. Socha.
A-27-97—James J. Stalker.
A-31-97—Thespian Dean.
A-32-97—Robert Edward Thaxton.
A-33-97—Zainab Malik.
A-34-97—Cleo Fluellen.
A-37-97—Wilbur Earle Keller, Sr.
A-39-97—Rosita Turner.
A-40-97—Richard Maron.
A-41-97—Penelope Vlahopoulos.
A-44-97—Stephen S. Spackey.
A-45-97—Banc One Mortgage Corp.
A-85-97—Flannery’s Pub of Cleveland, Ltd.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr.
Williams. Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Williams and seconded by Mr.
Saunders for Approval of the Minutes as presented by the Secretary
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland:

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with
representations
made
on
these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, MAY 30, 1997
Tire Recapping, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1969-96,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, December 16, 1996.
May 14 and May 21, 1997

April 30, 1997

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 4, 1997
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Sullivan. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr.
Williams. Absent: Mr. Bowes.
*

*

*

JOSEPH F. DENK,
CHAIRMAN

Fleet Washing, for the Various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 258-96, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 18, 1996.
May 14 and May 21, 1997

PUBLIC NOTICE
The following are in violation of
C.O. 623.14:
Richard Alt, last known address,
1742 West 29th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44113.
Richard
Norris,
last
known
address, 10127 South Blvd., Apartment 2, Cleveland, Ohio 44108.

FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 1997
Computer Hardware, Software and
Peripherals,
Installation
and
Training,
for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 26097, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, March 24, 1997.

773

73
Janitorial Supplies, for the Various
Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 639-96,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, May 13, 1996.
May 14 and May 21, 1997
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11, 1997
Lease of Golf Carts, for the Division
of
Recreation,
Department
of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
261-97, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, April 21,
1997.
Exterminating
Services,
for
the
Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 385-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 21, 1997.
May 14 and May 21, 1997
THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 1997
Ammunition, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety,
as
authorized
by
Section
135.065 of the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland, 1976.
Traffic Paint, Thermoplastic and
Reflective Glass Beads, for the
Division of Traffic Engineering
and Parking, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 268-97, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 14, 1997.
Labor and Materials to Paint Center
and Lane Lines, for the Division
of Traffic Engineering and Parking, Department of Public Safety,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
267-97, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, April 14,
1997.
Traffic Signal and Sign Material
and Equipment, for the Division
of Traffic Engineering and Parking, Department of Public Safety,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
266-97, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, April 14,
1997.
Reflective Sheeting and Sign Posts,
for the Division of Traffic Engineering and Parking, Department
of Public Safety, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 265-97, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, April 14, 1997.
Residential Sound Insulation Program - Group I, for the Department of Port Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 930-95,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK WILL BE REQUIRED
FOR EACH SET OF PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT
WILL BE REFUNDED IF THE
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15)
DAYS AFTER THE BID OPENING DATE. A PRE-BID MEETING
WILL BE HELD ON MAY 29, 1997,
2:00 P.M. IN THE MAIN CONFER-

The City Record

74
ENCE ROOM, 2ND FLOOR ADMINISTRATION,
CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT TERMINAL BUILDING.
May 14 and May 21, 1997

Paper Stock and Envelopes, for the
Division of Printing and Reproduction, Department of Finance,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
225-97, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, April 14,
1997.

THURSDAY, JUNE 5, 1997
May 21 and May 28, 1997
Reconstruction of Taxiway “J”, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department
of Port Control.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS ARE RETURNED
IN GOOD CONDITION WITHIN
FIFTEEN (15) DAYS AFTER
THE BID OPENING DATE. A
PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, MAY 29,
1997, 10:00 A.M. IN THE ENGINEERING OFFICE CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.
Continental Airlines, Inc., Cleveland
2000, Cleveland Hopkins International Airport “C” Concourse President’s Club, for the Department of
Port Control.
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. MAY
BE OBTAINED FROM ROBERT P.
MADISON, INTERNATIONAL, INC.,
2930 EUCLID AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 FOR A NONREFUNDABLE
FEE
OF
ONE
HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE DOLLARS
($125.00).
A
PRE-BID
MEETING WILL BE HELD ON
WEDNESDAY, MAY 28, 1997, 10:00
A.M. AT THE ROC BUILDING,
5900 SOUTH CARGO ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135. SEALED BIDS
WILL
BE
RECEIVED
UNTIL
THE BID CLOSING DATE OF
JUNE 5, 1997, 3:00 P.M., AT CONTINENTAL AIRLINES, INC., ROC
BUILDING, 5900 SOUTH CARGO
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135
— ATTENTION BILL FRASER.
May 21 and May 28, 1997

THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 1997
Sewer Test Tee Installation and
Snaking, for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Section 541.13 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and Ordinance No. 643-90, passed
by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, June 11, 1990.
A MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
WILL
BE
HELD
ON
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 4, 1997, 10:30
A.M., AT THE DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
12302 KIRBY AVENUE.
May 21 and May 28, 1997
FRIDAY, JUNE 13, 1997
Pool Chemicals, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 42597, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, May 5, 1997.
Photo Supplies, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No.
221-97, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, April 14,
1997.
Masonry
Restoration
Work
at
Engine House #42, for the Division of Property Management,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1028-93, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 7, 1993.
May 21 and May 28, 1997

FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 1997

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 18, 1997

Rebuilt Transmissions, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 1968-96,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, December 16, 1996.

C-15 Transmission Line to Pearl
Road, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1071-93, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 7, 1993.

May 21 and May 28, 1997
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11, 1997
Disposal of Catch Basin Debris, for
the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities,
as authorized by Ordinance No. 215196, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, February 10, 1997.
A MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE HELD ON THURSDAY, JUNE 5, 1997, 10:00 A.M., AT
THE DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL, 12302 KIRBY
AVENUE.
Meals for the Summer Food Service
Program,
for
the
Division
of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 21797, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, April 14, 1997.

May 21 and May 28, 1997
ANNOUNCEMENT
Engineering
Services
for
the
Reconstruction East 40th Street.
The Division of Engineering and
Construction has issued a Request
for Proposal (RFP) for the Engineering Services necessary for the
Reconstruction of East 40th Street.
Interested parties should contact
J. Christopher Nielson, Commissioner, Division of Engineering and Construction, City Hall, Room 518, 601
Lakeside Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44114-1067 (216) 664-2381, for a Copy
of the RFP. The Proposals are due
no later than 12:00 noon on Friday,
June 6, 1997 in the Commissioner’s
Office, Room 518.
May 21 and May 28, 1997

774

May 21, 1997
SPECIAL BID NOTICE
Sealed bids will be received for
the maintenance and landscaping of
the Cleveland Theater District. Bid
specs can be picked up at Playhouse
Square
Foundation,
1501
Euclid
Avenue, Suite 810, Cleveland, Ohio
44115. Sealed bids must be received
no later than noon, Monday, June
16th, 1997 at the above address.
Inquiries can be made to Sarah at
348-5326.
May 21, 28 and June 4, 1997

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 55-97.
By Councilman Zone (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Adeline Road, S.W.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of Adeline Road S.W.,
as hereinafter described, and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate: The following described real property, located
in
Cleveland,
Cuyahoga
County,
Ohio, and known as being all that
portion of:
The southeasterly 21.81 feet of
ADELINE ROAD S.W., (80.00 feet
wide), that extends northeasterly
from the northeasterly line of Oliver Road S.W., (50.00 feet wide), to
its intersection with the westerly
line of Sublot No. 64 in the Moses &
Samantha
Day
Subdivision
as
recorded in Volume 16, Page 17 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Res. No. 56-97.
By Councilman Paulenske (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Houston Avenue S.W.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of Houston Avenue
S.W., as hereinafter described, and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby declares
its intention to vacate: The following described real property, located
in
Cleveland,
Cuyahoga
County,
Ohio, and known as;
Being all that portion of HOUSTON
AVENUE
S.W.
(40.00
feet
wide),
extending
Southerly
and
Southwesterly from the Westerly

May 21, 1997
prolongation of the Southerly line of
Houston Avenue S.W. at its intersection with the Southerly prolongation of the Westerly line of West
5th Street (40.00 feet wide) to the
Easterly line of West 7th Street
(50.00 feet wide) and including it
associated turnouts.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Res. No. 346-97.
By Mayor White (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of East 12th Street.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of East 12th Street, as
hereinafter described, and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it hereby its intention to vacate: The following described
real property, located in Cleveland,
Cuyahoga County, Ohio, and known as
being all that portion of:
EAST 12TH STREET (16.5 feet
wide) extending Northerly from the
Northerly line of Carnegie Avenue
S.E. (99.00 feet wide) to the Southerly line of Bronson Court S.E. (16.5
feet wide).
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Res. No. 848-97.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C1 Liquor
Permit to 9503 Denison Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 2177554, Dina Inc., dba
Dina
Food
Mart,
9503
Denison
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and

The City Record
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 2177554, Dina Inc., dba
Dina
Food
Mart,
9503
Denison
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Res. No. 849-97.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit to 9613 Madison Avenue, and
repealing Res. No. 137-97, objecting
to said transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 9613 Madison Avenue, by Res. No. 137-97,
adopted January 27, 1997; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of ownership and consents
to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit to 9613 Madison
Avenue, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Res. No. 137-97, containing said objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer of ownership thereof.

775

75
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect
and be in force immediately upon
its adoption and approval by the
Mayor;
otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by
law.
Adopted May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Res. No. 850-97.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency resolution recognizing the accomplishments of Malcolm X to the African American
community and commending the
organization known as 2500 Positive
Black Men for its efforts to promote
diversity and to build a stronger
city.
Whereas, the birthday of Malcolm
X (El Hajj Malik Shabazz) is on
May 19, 1925, and the organization
known as 2500 Positive Black Men
wants to use the day to highlight
the accomplishments of the African
American community; and
Whereas, Malcolm X represents
the struggle of civil and human
rights, and the union of people
without regard to race, religion,
creed, gender or national origin;
and
Whereas, Malcolm X advanced the
struggle of African Americans by
linking it to the struggles of all
oppressed peoples in the world, and
he demonstrated that every person
can help make valuable contributions to betterment of humanity;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or welfare in that Malcolm X’s
strong and consistent stance against
racism and equality of all peoples
helped voice the concerns of African
Americans for their families as well
as for our country; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council recognizes the accomplishments of Malcolm X to the African American
community and the City of Cleveland, and commends the organization known as 2500 Positive Black
Men in its efforts to help understand
our diversity and use it as an asset
in building a stronger city.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 2150-96.
By Councilmen Miller and Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide services necessary for the design, layout, printing, and/or other marketing, advertising and designing services for
various publications, for the Department of Port Control.

76
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
and directed to employ by contract
one or more consultants or one or
more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary for the design, layout, printing, and/or other marketing, advertising and designing services for various publications, for
the Department of Port Control.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control for the purpose
of compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Port Control, and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the contract or
contracts authorized herein shall be
awarded not later than December 31,
1997.
Section 3. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001,
Request No. 22560.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 49-97.
By Councilmen Patton and Polensek (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to establish No Right Turn at the specific
intersection in the City of Cleveland
listed herein, and to amend the
schedule on file with the Clerk of
Council, File No. 106-76, pursuant to
Section 413.10 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
relating to No Right Turns during
certain hours.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
4511.13 of the Ohio Revised Code, this
Council does hereby prohibit right
turns against a steady red signal,
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
4:00 pm. Monday through Friday at
the specific intersection in the City
of Cleveland listed herein, which list
shall be added to the schedule on file
with the Clerk of Council by amending File No. 106-76, established pursuant to Section 413.10 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
1684-76, passed June 29, 1976.

The City Record
WARD
1
INTERSECTION
East 141st and Harvard Avenue

May 21, 1997
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Awaiting the approval or disapproval of the Mayor.

DIRECTION
All Directions
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 115-97.
By Councilmen Patmon, Jackson
and
Rokakis
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
Cleveland
Neighborhood
Development Corporation to administer an
industrial retention and expansion
program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has determined that a citywide
industrial retention and expansion
initiative program (“the Program”)
will create jobs and employment
opportunities for City residents, alleviate physical and economic deterioration, elimination and/or prevent
the recurrence of blight, stimulate
economic revitalization and improve
the tax base, all of which are positive factors and in the best interest
of the City and its residents; and
Whereas, the City desires to enter
into
a
contract
with
Cleveland
Neighborhood Development Corporation (“CNDC”) to administer the
Program; and
Whereas, through Ordinance No.
56-94, passed June 13, 1994, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2123-96,
passed February 10, 1997, the City
established the Neighborhood Development Investment Program and the
Neighborhood Development Investment Fund (NDIF) for the purpose
of stimulating the development of
major opportunities for job creation,
retention, and expansion in the
City’s neighborhoods; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with CNDC to provide professional
services necessary to administer the
Program for the Program.
Section 2. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed One Hundred
Eighty
Thousand
Dollars
($180,000) and, provisions of Ordinance No. 56-94, passed June 13, 1994,
as amended by Ordinance No. 212396, passed February 10, 1997, to the
contrary notwithstanding, shall be
from the NDIF, Fund No. 10 SF 501.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

776

Ord. No. 116-97.
By Councilmen Patmon, Jackson,
Rybka and Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located at 998 Parkwood
to Choice Construction Company,
Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 109-13-027, as
more fully described in Section 2
below, to Choice Construction Company, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 109-13-027
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 121 in Amor and Carpenter’s Subdivision of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 370 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 30 of Maps, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Records, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly side of
Parkwood Drive, N.E., at its intersection with the Northerly side of
Amor Avenue, N.E., thence Westerly
along the Northerly side of Amor
Avenue N.E., 152.13 feet to the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
121; thence Northerly along the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 121,
47.50 feet to the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot; thence Easterly
along the Northerly line of said
Sublot No. 121, 126.38 feet to the
Westerly side of Parkwood Drive,
N.E.; thence Southerly along the
Westerly side of Parkwood Drive,
N.E., about 52.50 feet to the place of
the beginning, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordi-

May 21, 1997
nance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 122-97.
By Councilmen Smith, Jackson,
Rybka and Rokakis (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at Mentor Avenue to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 008-02-064, as
more fully described in Section 2
below, to Greater Cleveland Habitat
for Humanity.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 008-02-064
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
78 in Jacob B. Perkins Subdivision
of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 71, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 11 of Maps,
Page
36
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on

The City Record
the
Southerly
side
of
Mentor
Avenue, S.W., and extending back
between parallel lines 135 feet deep
along the Westerly side of West
17th Street, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 165-97.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1098 Ansel Road and
1102 Ansel Road to Shirle Crumbs
aka Shirle L. Crumbs.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 107-06-029 and

777

77
107-06-031, as more fully described in
Section 2 below, to Shirle Crumbs
aka Shirle L. Crumbs.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 107-06-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 196 in the Posen Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 375 and 376, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 20 of
Maps, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 39.63 feet
front on the Southwesterly side of
Ansel Road, N.E. and extending
back 94.66 feet on the Northerly
line, which is also the Southerly
line of Pulaski Avenue, N.E., 115.09
feet on the Southerly line and having a rear line of 34 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P.P. No. 107-06-031
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
194 in Joseph Hollman’s “Posen”
Subdivision of part of Original 100
Acre Lot Nos. 375 and 376, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 20
of Maps, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 38.47 feet front
on the Southwesterly side of Ansel
Avenue, N.E. and extending back
134.92 feet on the Northerly line,
154.75 feet on the Southerly line and
having a rear line of 33 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.

78
Ord. No. 166-97.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1910 East 81 Street
and 1908 East 81 Street to William
E. and Delores Harper.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell Permanent Parcel No. 119-02-060 and 119-02-061 as more
fully described in Section 2 below, to
William E. and Delores Harper.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 119-02-060
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublots 12 and 13 in Pedrick Allotment of part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 399, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page
49 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land,
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the westerly line of
East 81st Street, (formerly Princeton
Street), as the same was opened and
widened by Ordinance of the City
Council of the City of Cleveland and
proceedings in the Probate Court
Case of this County, in the year
1893, at a point in said line 8 feet
Southerly of the Northerly corner of
Sublot No. 12; thence Northerly along
the Westerly line of East 81st
Street, 46 feet; thence Westerly parallel with the Northerly line of
Sublot No. 13, about 142 feet 8 inches to the Westerly side of Sublot No.
13; thence Southerly along said
Westerly line and along the Westerly line of Sublot No. 12, 46 feet;
thence Easterly about 143 feet to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
1. Easement from Luther and
Addie Roby and Harris and Eva L.
Burrows to Skadden Burton, dated
August 20, 1896, filed for record
August 20, 1896, filed for record
August 26, 1896 at 2:36 P.M. and
recorded in Volume 649, Page 226 of
Cuyahoga County Records.
2. Easement from Rose W. and
John P. Gager, to Rose A. Hartz,
dated June 3, 1905, filed for record
June 6, 1905 at 3:59 P.M. and recorded in Volume 980, Page 69 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Also subject to Zoning Ordinances,
if any.

The City Record
P.P. No. 119-02-061
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sub Lots Nos. 13 and 14 in W.E. and
C.F. Pedrick’s Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
399, as shown by the recorded plat
of said Subdivision in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 49 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning as a point on the Westerly line of East 81st Street, (formerly Princeton Street) as appropriated in Probate Court, Docket 32, No.
8078, 12 feet Southerly from the
Southerly line of Sublot No. 14;
thence Northerly along said Westerly line of East 81st Street, 30 feet;
thence Westerly at right angles
with said East 81st Street about
142.96 feet to the Westerly line of
Sublot No. 14; thence Southerly
along the Westerly line of Sub Lots
Nos. 14 and 13, 30 feet; thence Easterly and parallel with the Southerly
line of said Sub Lot No. 14 about
142.98 feet to the place of beginning,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 167-97.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1549 East 84 Street to
Susan D. Whatley.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and

778

May 21, 1997
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is hereby authorized
to sell Permanent Parcel No. 1 0 6 2 2 - 1 1 4, as more fully described in
Section 2 below, to Susan D. Whatl e y.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 106-22-114
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
391 and described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the Easterly line of East 84th Street (formerly Van Ness Avenue) 463.17 feet
Southerly from the Southerly line of
Wade Park Avenue, N.E. (formerly
Wade Park Avenue), thence Easterly
parallel
with
Wade
Park
Avenue,
N.E.,
102
feet;
thence
Southerly parallel with East 84th
Street 37 feet; thence Westerly parallel with Wade Park Avenue, N.E.
102 feet to said Easterly line of
East 84th Street; thence Northerly
37 feet to the place of beginning,
and being further known as the
Northerly 37 feet of Parcel No. 132
in L. M. Southern’s proposed Wade
Park Avenue Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos.
383 and 391, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to restrictions and easement contained in deed recorded in
Volume 485, Page 491, Cuyahoga
County Records.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.

May 21, 1997
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 168-97.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 1847 East 86 Street to
James and Estella McCrary.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
hereby authorized to sell Permanent
Parcel No. 119-05-092, as more fully
described in Section 2 below, to
James and Estella McCrary.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 119-05-092
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
400 and part of Sublots 15 and 16 in
Crumb Baslington and Oviatt’s Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 400, the plat
of which is recorded in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 49 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 86th Street (formerly Glen
Park Place) 40 feet wide on the
Easterly line of which is parallel
with and 45 feet Westerly from the
Westerly line of said Sublots No. 15
and 16, at a point 184 feet Northerly from the Northwesterly corner of
the parcel conveyed by L. M. Southern and wife to G. J. Hardway by
deed recorded in Volume 436, Page
428 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of East 86th Street, 30 feet;
thence Easterly at right angles with
said (Glen Park Place), now known
as East 86th Street, 75 feet; thence
Southerly parallel with (Glen Park
Place), now known as East 86th
Street, 30 feet; thence Westerly 75
feet to the place of beginning.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.

The City Record
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 169-97.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 8212 Wade Park
Avenue to Allie M. McClerkin.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-22-004, as
more fully described in Section 2
below, to Allie M. McClerkin.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 106-22-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being a part of

779

79
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
391 bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Wade Park Avenue N.E. at a point
distant Easterly (measured along
said Southerly line) 141.91/100 feet
from its intersection with the Easterly line of East 82nd Street (formerly
Genesse
Avenue);
thence
Southerly parallel with the Easterly
line of East 86th Street (formerly
Marcy Avenue), 140 feet to the center line of a 10 foot alley; thence
Westerly along the centerline of
said 10 foot alley, 34.50/100 feet to
a point; thence Northerly parallel
with said Easterly line of East 86th
Street, 140 feet to the Southerly line
of Wade Park Avenue N.E.; thence
Easterly along said Southerly line
of Wade Park Avenue N.E. 34.50/100
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 170-97.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 6706 Zoeter Avenue
to Christine Conner.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and

80
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-08-090, as
more fully described in Section 2
below, to Christine Connor.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 106-08-090
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 6 feet from front to rear of
Sublot No. 63 and the Westerly 24
feet from front to rear of Sublot No.
62 in the Zoeter and Decker’s Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County
Records and together forming a parcel of land 30 feet front on the
Southerly side of Zoeter Avenue, N.E.
and extending back of equal width
165 feet 4 inches, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Easement recorded in
Volume 9062, Page 500 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 253-97.
By Councilmen Britt, Jackson,
Rybka and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program

The City Record
and located in the area North of
Cedar, South of Quincy, West of
East 90 Street and East of East 93
Street to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation or its designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-33-033, as
more fully described in Section 2
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 119-33-033
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 34 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 46 in Catherine Dolman’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 408,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 12 of Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 34
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 90th Street, (formerly South
Bell Avenue), and extending back
107.80 feet deep on the Northerly
line, 107.81 feet deep on the Southerly line, and having a rear line of 34
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less. but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-33-034, as
more fully described in Section 4
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 3 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 119-33-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 16 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 46 and the Southerly
18 feet from front to rear of Sublot
No. 47 in Catherine Dolman’s Subdivision of a part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 408, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 12
of Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 34 feet front on the
Easterly side of East 90th Street,
S.E., formerly South Bell Avenue,

780

May 21, 1997
and extending back of equal width
about 107.79 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-34-042, as
more fully described in Section 6
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 5 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 119-34-042
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 25 feet of Sublot No. 31 in
Streator and Adams Subdivision of
part of Original Lot No. 408 (formerly in East Cleveland Village
known in the said City) as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 15 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 25 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 93rd
Street (formerly Oakdale Street)
and extending back of equal width
224 feet deep, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less. but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-34-043, as
more fully described in Section 8
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 7 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 119-34-043
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
30 in Streator and Adam’s Subdivision of part of Original 100 Acre Lot
No. 408, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 15
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 50 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 93rd Street, and extending back of equal width 224 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less. but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 119-34-045, as
more fully described in Section 10
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 9 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 119-34-045
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
28 in Streator and Adams Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 408 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 15 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 50 feet front on
the Westerly side of Oak Street,
(now known as East 93rd Street),

May 21, 1997
and extending back of equal width
224 feet deep, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-16-047, as
more fully described in Section 12
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 11 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-16-047
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 62 and the Northerly 10
feet of Sublot No. 64 in H. Haines’
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 409 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 50 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 97th Street
and extending back between parallel lines 153 feet deep as appears by
said plat be the same more or less
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-16-053, as
more fully described in Section 14
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 13 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-16-053
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 25 feet of Sublot No. 46
and the Northerly 15 feet of Sublot
No. 48 in H. Haines Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 409, as shown by the recorded plat of said allotment in Volume
4 of Maps, Page 50 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Said parts of Sublots Nos. 46 and
48 together form a parcel of land
having a frontage of 40 feet on the
Easterly side of East 97th Street
(formerly
Branch
Avenue,
also
known as South Logan Avenue) and
extending back between parallel
lines 153 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-16-068, as
more fully described in Section 16
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 15 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-16-068
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 16-1/2 feet of Sublot No. 14
and all of Sublot No. 12 in Haine’s
Allotment of part of Original 100

The City Record
Acre Lot No. 409, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 4, Page 50
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land 461/2 feet front on the Easterly side
of East 97th Street, (formerly South
Logan Street), and extending back
of equal width 153 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-16-071, as
more fully described in Section 18
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 17 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-16-071
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 3, 4 and 6 in H. Haines’
Allotment of part of Original 100
Acre Lot No. 409 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps,
Page
50
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a
parcel
of
land
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 97th Street, (formerly South
Logan Avenue) at a point which is
distant 10 feet Southerly, measured
along said Easterly line, from the
Northwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 6; thence Northerly along the
Easterly line of East 97th Street, 50
feet to a point; thence Easterly and
parallel with the Northerly line of
said Sublot No. 6, 85 feet to a point:
thence Southerly and parallel with
the Easterly line of East 97th Street,
50 feet to a point; thence Westerly
and parallel with the Northerly line
of said Sublot No. 6, 85 feet to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to restrictions and easements contained in deed recorded in
Volume 5451, Page 329, Cuyahoga
County Records.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-16-083, as
more fully described in Section 20
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 19 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-16-083
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 130.4 feet of Sublot No. 27 and
the Easterly 130.4 feet of Northerly
one-half of Sublot No. 29 in Henry
Haines’ Allotment of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 409
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 4 of Maps, Page 50 of Cuyahoga County Records. Said parts of
Sublots Nos. 27 and 29 together form
a parcel of land having a frontage
of 45 feet on the Westerly side of
East 97th Street (formerly Branch
Avenue)
and
extending
back
between parallel lines about 130.4
inches, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.

781

81
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-16-084, as
more fully described in Section 22
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 21 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-16-084
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 15 feet of Sublot No. 29
and the Northerly 25 feet of Sublot
No. 31 in Henry Haine’s Allotment
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 409, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 50
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land
forty feet front on the Westerly side
of
South
Logan
Avenue,
(now
known as East 97th Street), 154 feet,
4-3/4 inches deep, on the Northerly
line, about 154 feet 4-3/4 inches
deep, on the Southerly line and 40
feet in the rear, be the same more
or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-16-088, as
more fully described in Section 24
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 23 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-16-088
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 5 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 39, all of Sublot No. 41,
and the Northerly 5 feet from front
to rear of Sublot No. 43 in Henry
Haines Allotment of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 409, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 50 of Cuyahoga
County Records and together forming a parcel of land 40 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 97th Street
(formerly South Logan Avenue) and
extending back between parallel
lines
154
feet
3-1/4
inches,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 25. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-16-089, as
more fully described in Section 26
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 26. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 25 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-16-089
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 25 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 43 in Haines Allotment
of part of Original 100 Acre Lot No.

82
409 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 50 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 25 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 97th Street, formerly
Branch Avenue, and extending back
154 feet 3 inches on the Southerly
line, 154 feet 3-1/4 inches on the
Northerly line and having a rear
line of 25.00 feet as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 27. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-16-133, as
more fully described in Section 28
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 28. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 27 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-16-133
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
37 in D.A. Burt’s Allotment of part
of Original 100 Acre Lot No. 409, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Allotment in Volume 9 of Maps,
Page
4
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records. Said Sublot No. 37 has a
frontage of 50 feet on the westerly
side of East 95th Street (formerly
Burt
Street)
and
extends
back
between parallel lines 102 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 29. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-16-134, as
more fully described in Section 30
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 30. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 29 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-16-134
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
38 in Daniel A. Burt’s Subdivision of
a part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 409, as shown by the recorded plat of said subdivision in Volume 9 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
having
a
frontage of 50 feet on the Westerly
side of East 95th Street and extending back between parallel lines 102
feet deep, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 31. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-17-003, as
more fully described in Section 32
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 32. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 31 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-17-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the

The City Record
Northerly 28 feet of Sublot No. 9 and
the Southerly 19 feet of Sublot No.
10 in Daniel A. Burt’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 409, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 9 of Maps, Page
4 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land 47
feet front on the Easterly side of
Oakdale Avenue, (now known as
East 93rd Street and extending back
of equal width 115 feet deep as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 33. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-17-052, as
more fully described in Section 34
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 34. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 33 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-17-052
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
80 and the Southerly 7-1/2 feet of
Sublot No. 78 in H. Haines Allotment
of a part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 409, as shown by the
recorded plat of Allotment in Vol. 4
of Maps, Page 50, of Cuyahoga
County Records. Said Sublot No. 80
and said part of said Sublot No. 78
together form a parcel of land having a frontage of 37-1/2 feet on the
Easterly side of East 97th Street
(formerly
Branch
Avenue)
and
extending back between parallel
lines 153 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances.
Section 35. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-17-069, as
more fully described in Section 36
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 36. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 35 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-17-069
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
93 and the Northerly 15 feet of
Sublot No. 95 in H. Haines Subdivision of a part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 409 in said City,
said Sublot 93 and said part of said
Sublot No. 95 together forming a
parcel of land having a frontage of
45 feet on the Westerly side of East
97th Street (formerly South Logan
Avenue), and extends back of equal
width 153 feet and 9 inches deep, as
per plat of said Subdivision recorded in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 50 of
Cuyahoga County Records.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 37. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-17-075, as
more fully described in Section 38
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.

782

May 21, 1997
Section 38. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 37 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-17-075
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
77 and the Southerly 15 feet of
Sublot No. 75 in Henry Haines Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 409 as shown
by the recorded Plat in Volume 4 of
Maps, Page 50 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 45 feet front on the
Westerly side of East 97th Street
(formerly South Logan Avenue) 153
feet 10-3/4 inches deep on the
Southerly line, and about 153 feet, 11
inches deep on the Northerly line
and 45 feet wide in the rear, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 39. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-17-076, as
more fully described in Section 40
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 40. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 39 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-17-076
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 25 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 73 and the Northerly
15 feet from front to rear of Sublot
No. 75 in Haines Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 409 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 50
of Cuyahoga County Records. Said
parts of Sublots Nos. 73 and 75
together form a parcel of land having a frontage of 40 feet on the
Westerly side of East 97th Street,
(formerly
Branch
Avenue),
and
extending back 153 feet 11-11/24
inches on the Northerly line, 153 feet
11-1/8 inches on the Southerly line,
and having a rear line of 40 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 41. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-17-083, as
more fully described in Section 42
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 42. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 41 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-17-083
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly 32 feet of the Northerly 45
feet of Sublot No. 70 in D.A. Burt’s
Subdivision of a part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 409, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 9 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and being 32 feet
front on the Easterly side of East
95th Street, (formerly Burt Street),

May 21, 1997
and extending back between parallel lines about 68 feet 8 inches, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 43. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 121-17-084, as
more fully described in Section 44
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 44. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 43 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 121-17-084
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 27 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 69 and the Southerly 5
feet from front to rear of Sublot No.
70 in Daniel A. Burt’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 409, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 9 of Maps, Page
4 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land 32
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 95th Street (formerly Burt
Street), and extending back about
68 feet 9-1/2 inches on the Northerly line, 68 feet 8-1/2 inches on the
Southerly line and 32 feet wide in
the rear, as appears by said plat.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 45. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-07-053, as
more fully described in Section 46
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 46. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 45 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 126-07-053
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
21 in William Given’s Re-Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 416, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps,
Page
59
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the
Northerly
side
of
Folsom
Avenue,
S.E.,
(formerly
Berlin
Street), and extending back of equal
width 149 feet 4 inches, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 47. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-07-072, as
more fully described in Section 48
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 48. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 47 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 126-07-072
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 36 in William Given’s
Subdivision of Sublot No. 5 in John
Remmington’s Subdivision of part of

The City Record
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 416, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
William Given’s Subdivision in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 59 of Cuyahoga
County Records; and forming a parcel of land bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning in the Southerly line of
Folsom Avenue S.E., (50 feet wide)
at the Northeasterly corner of said
Sublot No. 36; thence Southerly,
along the Easterly line of said
Sublot No. 36, 80.70 feet to the principal place of beginning of the parcel of land herein intended to be
described; thence Southerly, along
said Easterly line of Sublot No. 36,
about 80.30 feet to the Southeasterly corner thereof; thence Westerly,
along the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 36, 40.00 feet to the Southwesterly
corner
thereof;
thence
Northerly, along the Westerly line
of said Sublot No. 36, about 80.30 feet
to a point distant Southerly (measured along said Westerly line of
Sublot No. 36), 80.70 feet from the
Northwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 36; thence Easterly along a line
parallel with said Southerly line of
Folsom Avenue, S.E., 40.00 feet to
the principal place of beginning, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Easement contained in the deed
dated February 5, 1953 and recorded
in Volume 7681, Page 279 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Easement contained in the deed
dated February 5, 1953 and recorded
in Volume 7681, Page 282 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Also, subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 49. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to
sell Permanent Parcel No. 126-07077, as more fully described in Section 50 below, to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 50. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 49 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 126-07-077
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 36 in William Given’s
Subdivision of Sublot No. 5 in John
Remington’s Subdivision of part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 416, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
William Given’s Subdivision in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 59 of Cuyahoga
County Records and forming a parcel of land bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning the Southerly line of
Folsom Avenue S.E. (50 feet wide),
at the Northeasterly corner of said
Sublot No. 36; thence Westerly,
along said Southerly line of Folsom
Avenue S.E., 40.00 feet to the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
36; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of Sublot No. 36, 80.70 feet;
thence Easterly, along a line parallel with said Southerly line of Folsom Avenue, S.E., 40.00 feet to the
Easterly line of said Sublot No. 36;
thence Northerly, along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 36, 80.70 feet to
the place of beginning, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less. but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.

783

83
SUBJECT TO: Easement recited in
Volume 7681, Page 279 of Cuyahoga
County Records, filed February 9, 1953.
Section 51. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-08-042, as
more fully described in Section 52
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 52. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 51 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 126-08-042
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
30 in the L. Beckman Re-subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 416 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 20 of Maps,
Page
3
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 35 feet front on
the Southerly side of Beckman
Avenue, S.E., and extending back
between parallel lines 115.6 feet
deep, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 53. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-08-043, as
more fully described in Section 54
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 54. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 53 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 126-08-043
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
29 in L. Beckman Re-subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 416 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 20 of Maps, Page
3 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 35 feet front on the Southerly
side of Beckman Avenue, S.E., and
extending back between parallel
lines 115.6 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 55. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 126-08-044, as
more fully described in Section 56
below,
to
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corp. or its designee.
Section 56. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 55 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P.P. No. 126-08-044
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 28 in The L. Beckman ReSubdivision of Sublot No. 6 in The
John Remington’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 416, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 20 of Maps, Page
3 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 35 feet front on the Southerly
side
of
Beckman
Avenue
and
extending back of equal width
115.60 feet, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.

84
Section 57. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 58. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 59. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest.
Section 60. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 398-97.
By Councilmen Polensek, Willis
and Westbrook (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 135.56 thereof, relating
to authorizing the Director of Public Safety to enter into agreements
with the Ohio Department of Public
Safety for the Police Division to conduct the “Third Grade Safety Belt
Program.”
Whereas, the Ohio Department of
Public Safety has developed a curriculum known as the “Third Grade
Safety Belt Program”; and
Whereas, the program involves
the training of third grade students
on the use of safety belts; and
Whereas, the Ohio Department of
Public Safety will reimburse the
City for costs associated with conducting the program locally at a
fixed rate per student; and
Whereas, for the 1997 program,
the City will receive reimbursement
from the state of Ohio in the sum of
$13,400.00 for the training of 6,700
third grade students; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 135.56 thereof to read as
follows:
Section 135.56 Third Grade Safety
Belt Program
(a) The Director of Public Safety
is authorized to enter into agreements with the Ohio Department of

The City Record
Public Safety for the Division of
Police to conduct a program known
as the “Third Grade Safety Belt
Program” to educate youngsters in
the use of safety belts. The Chief of
Police may co-sign such agreements
and is further authorized to sign
such other documents as may be
required by the Ohio Department of
Public Safety for the Division of
Police to participate in the program.
Any such agreement shall provide
that the City’s Department of Public Safety receive reimbursement
from the state of Ohio at the reimbursement rate per student then prevailing.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 399-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase
by requirement contract of automotive parts and supplies for the
repair,
replacement
and
maintenance of airport maintenance vehicles and equipment, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of two years for the necessary items
of automotive parts and supplies for
the repair, replacement and maintenance of airport maintenance vehicles and equipment in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
two years.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
22570)

784

May 21, 1997
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 422-97.
By Councilmen Jackson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply for and accept
a
grant from the State of Ohio
Department of Development to conduct the State Home Weatherization
Assistance Program and to enter
into contract with various organizations, individual landlords, tenants
and contractors for the purpose of
providing weatherization assistance
to low-income City residents through
the state Home Weatherization Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to apply for and accept
a grant in the amount of $1,993,367
from the State of Ohio Department
of Development, to conduct the State
Weatherization Assistance Program
and to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for said
grant.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into contract with
individual landlords, tenants, contractors and the following on-profit
organizations for the provision of
weatherization assistance to lowincome City residents through the
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program: Cleveland Housing
Network, Cudell Improvement, Inc.,
Hough Area Partners in Progress,
Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corporation, Neighborhood Housing Services, and Lutheran Housing Corporation.
Section 3. That the cost of said
contracts shall not exceed, in the
aggregate, $1,993,367 and shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 13 SF 858, 13
SF 860 and 13 SF 859.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 547-97.
By Councilmen Jackson and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Economic Development to enter into

May 21, 1997
contract with the National Development Council for training of the
staff of the community-based development organizations in the Empowerment Zone and the staff of the
City Empowerment Zone of Department of Economic Development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized and directed to enter into
contract with The National Development Council for professional services necessary to train staff from
Empowerment
Zone
communitybased development organizations,
including Hough Area Partners In
Progress,
Glenville
Development
Corporation,
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development Corporation, and Midtown Corridor, and to train the staff
of the City Empowerment Zone
through
direct
consultation
and
classroom training, on the basis of
a proposal dated September 9, 1996,
in the total sum of One Hundred
Thousand One Dollars ($101,000),
payable from Fund No. 18 SF 006,
Request No. 22286, for the Department of Community Development.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 558-97.
By Councilmen Smith and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the payment

The City Record
of
membership
dues,
fees
and
assessments of the City of Cleveland in the Airport Council International - North America and the
American Association of Airport
Executives for the years 1997 and
1998.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
and directed to cause payment of
1997 and 1998 membership dues, fees
and assessments of the City of
Cleveland, Department of Port Control, to be made to the Airport Council International - North America
(ACI) and the American Association
of Airport Executives (AAAE), from
Fund No. 60 SF 001, Request No.
22577.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect
and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the
Mayor;
otherwise it
shall take
effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by
law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.
Ord. No. 673-97.
By Councilman Westbrook (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide computerized
financial data for the Division of Treasury, Department of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

85
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed to employ by contract one
or more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to provide
computerized financial data, including quotes for U.S. credit markets,
equities, mortgage backed securities and Dow Jones capital market
reports.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Finance
from a list of qualified consultants
available for such employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Finance for the purpose of compiling such a list. The compensation to
be paid for such services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract herein authorized shall be
prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Finance,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund No. 01-15-04-0380,
Request No. 20176.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect
and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the
Mayor;
otherwise
it
shall take
effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by
law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.

Ord. No. 727-97.
By Councilmen Patmon and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and Human Resources to accept allocations of
grants from the State of Ohio Bureau of Employment Services under Titles II and III of the Job Training Partnership Act and to appropriate such funds to provide for administration of the JTPA program by the Department of Personnel and Human Resources.
Whereas, the Job Training Partnership Act of 1982, Public Law 97-300, as amended by the Job Training Reform
Amendments of 1992, Public Law 102-367, (“JTPA”), is a New Federalism program, the purpose of which is to “.
. . establish programs to prepare youth and adults facing serious barriers to employment for participation in the
labor force by providing job training and other services that will result in increased employment and earnings,
increased educational and occupational skills, and decreased welfare dependency, thereby improving the quality
of the workforce and enhancing the productivity and competitiveness of the Nation”; and
Whereas, in accordance with the JTPA, the Governor of the State of Ohio has designated service delivery and
substate areas for the JTPA throughout Ohio and the Governor has designated the geographic boundaries of the
City of Cleveland (“City”) as a Service Delivery Area (“SDA”) and Substate Area (“SSA”) No. 20; and
Whereas, in accordance with the agreement required by the JTPA and approved by the Governor, for the JTPA
Program Years (“PY”) ‘96 and ‘97, for the period July 1, 1996 through June 30, 1998, between the Chairman of
the Private Industry Council of Cleveland (“PICC”) and the City, the City has been designated the JTPA grant
recipient and administrative entity; and, substate grantee in SDA/SSA No. 20; and
Whereas, the Secretary of the United States Department of Labor has issued allotments of the JTPA funds to
the Ohio Bureau of Employment Services which has issued allocations under the JTPA Titles II and III to the
City for PY ‘97, subject to approval of the comprehensive job training and substate plan; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Personnel and Human Resources is hereby authorized to accept the following
allocations of grants from the State of Ohio Bureau of Employment Services under the JTPA, Title II-Training
Services For The Disadvantaged, and Title III, for delivery of allowable program services to eligible individuals, and to credit said grants to the fund and subfunds designated herein:

785

The City Record

86
GRANT NAME

May 21, 1997
FUND

AMOUNT

Title II Part A 77%
Adult Training Program

15 SF 071

$ 3,047,677.00

Title II Part A 5%
Services For Older Individuals

15 SF 072

200,307.00

Title II Part C 8%
State Education Coordination
and Grants

15 SF 076

288,894.00

Title II Part C 82%
Youth Training Program

15 SF 075

448,944.00

Title II Part B
Summer Youth Employment and
Training Program

15 SF 064

3,756,601.00

Title III
Employment and Training Assistance
for Dislocated Workers

15 SF 073

$ 1,270,804.00

TOTAL

$ 9,013,227.00

The Director of Personnel and Human Resources is hereby authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to accept and receive the funds under said grant.
Section 2. That the following sums from each grant specified in Section 1 herein are hereby appropriated as
follows to provide for administration of the JTPA program:

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

F.

Adult Training Program
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . .
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total
Services for Older Individuals
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . .
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 1,050,000.00
$ 1,997,677.00
$ 3,047,677.00

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$
$
$

50,000.00
150,307.00
200,307.00

State Education Coordination and Grants
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Expenses
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$
$
$

100,000.00
188,894.00
288,894.00

Youth Training Program
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$
$
$

100,000.00
348,944.00
448,944.00

Summer Youth Employment and Training Program
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$
450,000.00
$ 3,306,601.00
$ 3,756,601.00

Employment and Training Assistance For
Dislocated Workers
Personnel and Related Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$
250,000.00
$ 1,020,804.00
$ 1,270,804.00

Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.

786

The City Record

May 21, 1997
Ord. No. 728-97.
By Councilmen Patmon and Westbrook (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to enter into contracts for training services for the
disadvantaged and employment and
training assistance for dislocated
workers under the Job Training
Partnership Act; and to enter into
contracts for delivery of the Adult
Training Program under the Job
Training Partnership Act.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
hereby authorized to enter into contracts for training services for the
disadvantaged and employment and
training assistance for dislocated
workers under the Job Training
Partnership Act with the following
educational institutions: Breakwall
Corporation dba Total Technical
Institute, Cleveland Institute of Dental-Medical
Assistants;
Cuyahoga
Community College; King College of
Business, Inc. dba Sawyer College of
Business; and Meadowmark Computer Training, Inc.
Section 2. That the cost of the contracts authorized in Section 1 shall
not exceed Three Hundred Two
Thousand Three Hundred and Fifty
Dollars ($302,350.00), and will be
paid from Fund Nos. 15 SF 041, 15
SF 051, 15 SF 061, 15 SF 062, and 15
SF 063.
Section 3. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
hereby authorized to enter into contracts with the following service
delivers in amounts not to exceed
those listed below, for the delivery
of the Adult Training Program,
Title II Part A - 77%, Customized
Occupational Skills Training activities:
Geric Home Health
Care, Inc.
$ 148,675.00
Orion Consulting, Inc.
$ 140,876.00
Section 4. That the cost of the contracts authorized in Section 3 shall
not exceed Two Hundred Eighty
Nine Thousand Five Hundred Fifty
One Dollars ($289,551.00), and will be

87

paid from Fund Nos. 15 SF 041, 15 SF
051, and 15 SF 061, Request No. 22939.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.

Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed May 12, 1997.
Effective May 21, 1997.

Ord. No. 846-97.
By Councilman Moran.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Our Lady of Good Counsel Church to
stretch banners across State Road
and Mobile Court and in front of
4427 Pearl Road for the period from
May 27, 1997 to June 27, 1997, inclusive, publicizing their Summertime
Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
and directed to issue a permit to
Our Lady of Good Counsel Church
Circle Incorporated to install, maintain and remove banners across
State Road and Mobile Court and in
front of 4427 Pearl Road for the
period from May 27, 1997 to June 27,
1997 inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or permitted on said banners and
said banners shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of
said permit.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
_____________
Monday, May 19, 1997
Aviation and Transportation Committee: 9:30 A.M. — Present: Smith,
Chrm.; Sweeney, Vice Chrm.; Dolan,
Patmon, Skrha, Willis, White.
Public Service Committee: 11:00
A.M.
—
Present:
Coats,
Chrm.;
White, Vice Chrm.; Britt, Smith,
Sweeney. Excused: Johnson, Melena,
Moran, Westbrook.
Finance Committee: 2:00 P.M. —
Present: Westbrook, Chrm.; Polensek, Vice Chrm.; Britt, Coats, Johnson,
Lewis,
Patmon,
Robinson,
Rybka, Smith, Zone.
Tuesday, May 20, 1997
Community and Economic Development Committee: 10:00 A.M. —
Present: Jackson, Chrm.; Lewis, Vice
Chrm.; Britt, Gordon, Melena, Patton,
Smith, Willis. Excused: Coats.
Wednesday, May 21, 1997
Public Safety Committee: 10:00
A.M. — Present: Polensek, Chrm.;
Willis, Vice Chrm.; Dolan, Gordon,
Jackson,
Patmon,
Patton,
Zone.
Excused: Moran.
Public Utilities Committee: 1:30
P.M. — Present: Patton, Chrm.; Polensek, Vice Chrm.; Coats, Dolan,
Moran,
Patmon,
Skrha,
Willis.
Excused: Lewis.

Index to Council Proceedings
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments
Airport Council International
Authorizing and directing — payment of membership dues, fees and assessments of the City
of Cleveland — Airport Council International North America — American Association
of Airport Executives for the years 1997 and 1998 (O 558-97)

785

Banners
Permit — Our Lady of Good Counsel Church — May 27, 1997 to June 27, 1997
(O 846-97)

787

Block Grants
Expend Community Development Block Grant funds administrative expenses — Community
Development Department — reimbursement of nonprofit subrecipients for the cost of
audits — OMB Circular A-133 — CDBG Year XXIII (O 662-97)
Expend Community Development Block Grant funds — UDAG repayment funds for operation of
Storefront Renovation Program — Neighborhood commercial Hub Program CDBG Year XXIII
(O 663-97)

787

761-766

761-766

The City Record

88

May 21, 1997

Expend Community Development Block Grant funds — Code Enforcement and Demolition Program
CDBG Year XXIII (O 664-97)
Expend Community Development Block Grant funds — Federal Home Program funds
for administration — Housing Rehabilitation Program CDBG Year XXIII (O 661-97)

761-766
761-766

Broadway YMCA
Enter into a twelfth amendment — Lease Agreement No. 35620 — existing Lease Agreement
for rental of Broadway YMCA (O 813-97)

761

City Planning Commission
Accept grant from State of Ohio Department of Development to conduct — State Home
Weatherization Assistance Program — enter into contract various organizations,
individual landlords, tenants and contractors (O 422-97)
Amend title, Section 1 and Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1004-91 passed July 24, 1991
— relating to consent of the City of Cleveland — repair and resurfacing of Rocky
River Drive (O 324-97)
Change the Use District of lands between Auburn Avenue, S.W. and Barber Avenue S.W. —
east of W. 25th Street and west of Scranton Road (O 942-97)
Contract Uptown Cleveland Security Corp. — provide finance commercial security services
(O 935-97)
Contract with Collinwood Properties Co., Inc. L.L.C — provide financial assistance for
remediation of Collinwood Yard — amend Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 333-97 —
relating to Collinwood Yards (O 941-97)
Contract with NorthStar Equipment Corp. — provide economic development assistance
to partially finance the land acquisition and construction (O 550-97)
Declaring intention — vacate portion of Grayton Road (R 943-97)
Declaring the intention vacate a portion of Adeline Road (R 55-97)
Demolition and redevelopment of the blighted premises — located at 2654 Lisbon Road
(O 328-97)
Determining the method of making public improvement of rehabilitating taxiway/taxilane
“J” the south cargo ramp and associated appurtenances (O 931-97)
Determining method making public improvement of demolishing certain obsolete water towers
and pump station (O 1980-96)
Determining the method of public improvement of replacing a sewer on Cooley Avenue
(O 264-97)
East 81 Street, 1877, 1881 and 1887 — David and Julianna Leach (O 927-97)
Enter into Enterprise Zone Agreement with NorthStar Equipment Corp. — provide ten year
abatement for certain tangible personal property and real estate taxes (O 334-97)
Enterprise Zone Agreement with Jergens Inc.— provide ten year abatement — personal
property and real estate taxes and incentive expand — located at East 152nd Street
(O 936-97)
Glenville Development corporation — provide economic development assistance to partially
finance (O 939-97)
Grant — State of Ohio Department of Development — assist in roadwork improvements on
West 26th Street — expansion of Great Lakes Brewing Company (O 940-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located Mentor Avenue — Greater Cleveland Habitat for
Humanity (O 122-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1098 and 1102 Ansel Road to Shirle Crumbs
(O 165-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1549 East 84 Street — Susan D. Whatley
(O 167-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1847 East 86 Street — James and Estella McCrary
(O 168-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1910 East 81 Street and 1908 East 81 Street —
William E. and Delores Harper (O 166-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 6706 Zoeter Avenue — Christine Conner
(O 170-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 8212 Wade Park Avenue — Allie M. McClerkin
(O 169-97)
Lease real property located south and adjacent to Main Avenue Bridge —located underneath
the main avenue bridge — Board of County Commissioners of Cuyahoga County
(O 394-97)
Purchases and Supplies to sell City-owned property — located at southeast corner
of intersection of Johnston Parkway and Seville Avenue (O 388-97)
Repeal Sections 670B.01 to 670B.00 of the Codified Ordinances — as amended by enacting
new Sections 670B.01 to 670B.08 and 670B.99 — relating to outdoor pay telephones
(O 933-97)
Sell such property to — Cleveland Business Park, Ltd. and Emerald Research Park, Ltd.
(O 937-97)
Vacate a portion of East 39th Place (O 381-97)
Vacate a portion of East 69th Street (O 382-97)
Vacate a portion of King Court N.E. (O 389-97)

788

784

758-763
752
750

752
760-765
753
774
758-763
744
758-762
758-763
742
758-763

750
751
752
777
777
778
779
778
779
779

759-764
759-764

744
750
759-764
759-764
759-764

May 21, 1997

The City Record

89

Cleanland, Ohio
Enter into one or more contracts with Clean-Land Ohio — implement City’s Recycling,
Litter Prevention Education (O 113-97)

762

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Enter into Amendments to certain leases with — various signatory airlines at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport — Assignment and Novation with — United Airlines,
Inc. (O 560-97)

760-765

Cleveland Municipal Court
Legal Aid Society of Cleveland — legal services necessary to defend indigents —
Cleveland Municipal Court (O 627-97)

760-766

Cleveland Neighborhood Development Corporation
Enter into Contract with Cleveland Neighborhood Development Corporation — administer an
industrial (O 115-97)

776

Communications
Cuyahoga County City of Cleveland Lee Road — Ordinance No. 904-93 — passed June 14, 1993
PID No. 5281 — Ohio Department of Transportation (F 898-97)
Excess City Property Reference #004-97 — Purchases and Supplies Division
(F 897-97)
PUCO Notice of Intent — Cleveland Energy Resources (F 899-97)
Proposed expansion of Continental Airlines facilities at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport (F 900-97)
Requisition #098836 — Office Furniture — Port Control (F 895-97)
Requisition #098850 — Computer Software — Port Control Department (F 896-97)

703
703
703
703
703
703

Community Development
Accept grant from State of Ohio Department of Development to conduct — State Home
Weatherization Assistance Program — enter into contract various organizations,
individual landlords, tenants and contractors (O 422-97)
Amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 81-96 — passed April 1, 1996 relating to a contract with
— Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation (O 658-97)
Contracts — providing demolition removal — boarding up structures within City of
Cleveland — CDBG Year XXIII (O 660-97)
Demolition and redevelopment of the blighted premises — located at 2654 Lisbon Road
(O 328-97)
East 81 Street, 1877, 1881 and 1887 — David and Julianna Leach (O 927-97)
Enter into Contract with National Development Council — for training of the staff of the
community-based development — Empowerment Zone and staff City Empowerment Zone
(O 547-97)
Expend Community Development Block Grant funds — Code Enforcement and Demolition Program
CDBG Year XXIII (O 664-97)
Expend Community Development Block Grant funds — Federal Home Program funds
for administration — Housing Rehabilitation Program CDBG Year XXIII (O 661-97)
Expend Community Development Block Grant funds — UDAG repayment funds for operation of
Storefront Renovation Program — Neighborhood commercial Hub Program CDBG Year XXIII
(O 663-97)
Expend Community Development Block Grant funds administrative expenses — Community
Development Department — reimbursement of nonprofit subrecipients for the cost of
audits — OMB Circular A-133 — CDBG Year XXIII (O 662-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located Mentor Avenue — Greater Cleveland Habitat for
Humanity (O 122-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located North of Cedar South of Quincy — West of East 90
Street and East of 93 Street — Fairfax Renaissance (O 253-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1098 and 1102 Ansel Road to Shirle Crumbs
(O 165-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1549 East 84 Street — Susan D. Whatley
(O 167-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1847 East 86 Street — James and Estella McCrary
(O 168-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1910 East 81 Street and 1908 East 81 Street —
William E. and Delores Harper (O 166-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 6706 Zoeter Avenue — Christine Conner
(O 170-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 8212 Wade Park Avenue — Allie M. McClerkin
(O 169-97)
Lease real property located south and adjacent to Main Avenue Bridge —located underneath
the main avenue bridge — Board of County Commissioners of Cuyahoga County
(O 394-97)
Purchases and Supplies to sell City-owned property — located at southeast corner
of intersection of Johnston Parkway and Seville Avenue (O 388-97)

789

784
760-766
761-766
758-763
742

784
761-766
761-766

761-766

761-766
777
780
777
778
779
778
779
779

759-764
759-764

The City Record

90

May 21, 1997

Condolences
Belko, Steven John (R 945-97)
Brother Waston, Julius (R 944-97)
Mazzola, Joseph C. (R 954-97)
Novak, Robert A. (R 946-97)

703
703
703
703

Congratulations
Gallagher, Sean (R 948-97)
Kunz, Gregory (R 956-97)
Piar, John (R 947-97)
Rahman, Imam Clyde (R 953-97)
Sebring, William (R 949-97)
Senator Jackson, M. Morris (R 955-97)
St. Vincent de Paul Catholic Church (R 950-97)
Stewart, William R. (R 952-97)
Wilkins, Clarence A. (R 951-97)

703
703
703
703
703
703
703
703
703

Economic Development Department
Contract Uptown Cleveland Security Corp. — provide finance commercial security services
(O 935-97)
Contract with Collinwood Properties Co., Inc. L.L.C — provide financial assistance for
remediation of Collinwood Yard — amend Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 333-97 —
relating to Collinwood Yards (O 941-97)
Contract with NorthStar Equipment Corp. — provide economic development assistance
to partially finance the land acquisition and construction (O 550-97)
Enter into Contract with Cleveland Neighborhood Development Corporation — administer an
industrial (O 115-97)
Enter into Contract with National Development Council — for training of the staff of the
community-based development — Empowerment Zone and staff City Empowerment Zone
(O 547-97)
Enter into Enterprise Zone Agreement with NorthStar Equipment Corp. — provide ten year
abatement for certain tangible personal property and real estate taxes (O 334-97)
Enterprise Zone Agreement with Jergens Inc.— provide ten year abatement — personal
property and real estate taxes and incentive expand — located at East 152nd Street
(O 936-97)
Expansion and development of Cleveland Gear Company (O 934-97)
Glenville Development corporation — provide economic development assistance to partially
finance (O 939-97)
Grant — State of Ohio Department of Development — assist in roadwork improvements on
West 26th Street — expansion of Great Lakes Brewing Company (O 940-97)
MidTown Corridor — provide economic development — MidTown Commerce Park between Chester
and Euclid Avenue (O 938-97)
Sell such property to — Cleveland Business Park, Ltd. and Emerald Research Park, Ltd.
(O 937-97)
Submission to the electors — City of Cleveland of an initiative petition proposing —
enact new Section 33-1 of Charter of the City of Cleveland — relating to limitations
on the power of Council to grant or consent (O 845-97)

750

752
760-765
776

784
758-763

750
748
751
752
751
750

761

Empowerment Zone
Enter into Contract with National Development Council — for training of the staff of the
community-based development — Empowerment Zone and staff City Empowerment Zone
(O 547-97)

784

Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation
Amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 81-96 — passed April 1, 1996 relating to a contract with
— Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation (O 658-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located North of Cedar South of Quincy — West of East 90
Street and East of 93 Street — Fairfax Renaissance (O 253-97)

760-766
780

Finance Department
$1,150,000 — bonds — improving municipal properties and easements — residential areas
(O 925-97)
$10,850,00 — bonds — improving municipal street system facilities (O 920-97)
$11,750,000 — bonds — improving building and structures housing (O 921-97)
$3,250,000 — bonds — improving municipal park and recreation facilities
(O 922-97)
$325,000,000 — bonds — improving airport system (O 923-97)
$45,000,000 — bonds — general funds — escrow agreement (O 924-97)
Amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 81-96 — passed April 1, 1996 relating to a contract with
— Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation (O 658-97)

790

735
704
710
716
722
728
760-766

May 21, 1997

The City Record

Apply and accept grant — FAA grant funds (O 559-97)
Authorizing and directing — payment of membership dues, fees and assessments of the City
of Cleveland — Airport Council International North America — American Association
of Airport Executives for the years 1997 and 1998 (O 558-97)
Contract of Chevrolet car, van light medium and heavy duty truck parts (O 545-97)
Contract of Ford passenger car parts (O 538-97)
Contract of International truck parts (O 540-97)
Contract of Labor and materials to repair and maintain heavy duty construction equipment
(O 537-97)
Contract of automotive parts and supplies for the repair, replacement and maintenance of
airport maintenance vehicles equipment (O 399-97)
Contract of labor and materials needed to repair and maintain generators
(O 536-97)
Contract of labor and materials needed to repair and replace automotive, truck and
construction equipment glass (O 535-97)
Contract of oil and filter changes, valve body recalibration, and rebuilt automatic
Allison transmissions (O 541-97)
Contract of pharmaceutical supplies (O 432-97)
Contract of plumbing materials and supplies — Division of City Government
(O 725-97)
Contract of tire repair road service (O 542-97)
Contract of various types of batteries (O 543-97)
Contracts — providing demolition removal — boarding up structures within City of
Cleveland — CDBG Year XXIII (O 660-97)
Employ one or more consultants or firms of consultants — provide professional services
for testing and construction inspection services (O 434-97)
Employ one or more firms of certified engineers — provide professional services to
perform geotechnical engineering, material testing, environmental assessments and
construction inspection (O 421-97)
Employ one or more professional consultants — provide services for the design layout,
printing and other marketing (O 2150-96)
Employ one or more professional consultants — provide computerized financial data
— Division of Treasury (O 673-97)
Enacting new section 135.56 — relating to authorizing the Director of Public Safety —
enter into agreement with Ohio Department of Public Safety — Third Grade Safety Belt
Program (O 398-97)
Enter into Amendments to certain leases with — various signatory airlines at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport — Assignment and Novation with — United Airlines,
Inc. (O 560-97)
Enter into Contract with Cleveland Neighborhood Development Corporation — administer an
industrial (O 115-97)
Enter into Contract with National Development Council — for training of the staff of the
community-based development — Empowerment Zone and staff City Empowerment Zone
(O 547-97)
Enter into a Concession Agreement with Holy Moses Water Taxi — In exchange for docking
and operating privileges from Settler’s Landing site — Holy Moses Water Taxi — West
of the RTA tracks, between St. Clair (O 423-97)
Enter into one or more contracts with Clean-Land Ohio — implement City’s Recycling,
Litter Prevention Education (O 113-97)
Expend Community Development Block Grant funds — Federal Home Program funds
for administration — Housing Rehabilitation Program CDBG Year XXIII (O 661-97)
Expend Community Development Block Grant funds — Code Enforcement and Demolition Program
CDBG Year XXIII (O 664-97)
Expend Community Development Block Grant funds — UDAG repayment funds for operation of
Storefront Renovation Program — Neighborhood commercial Hub Program CDBG Year XXIII
(O 663-97)
Expend Community Development Block Grant funds administrative expenses — Community
Development Department — reimbursement of nonprofit subrecipients for the cost of
audits — OMB Circular A-133 — CDBG Year XXIII (O 662-97)
Finance to Moral Claims sums herein set forth opposite names of claimants
(O 930-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1098 and 1102 Ansel Road to Shirle Crumbs
(O 165-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1549 East 84 Street — Susan D. Whatley
(O 167-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1847 East 86 Street — James and Estella McCrary
(O 168-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1910 East 81 Street and 1908 East 81 Street —
William E. and Delores Harper (O 166-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 6706 Zoeter Avenue — Christine Conner
(O 170-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 8212 Wade Park Avenue — Allie M. McClerkin
(O 169-97)
Legal Aid Society of Cleveland — legal services necessary to defend indigents —
Cleveland Municipal Court (O 627-97)
Malcolm Pirnie, Inc. — Environmental Services (O 624-97)

791

91
760-765

785
760-765
759-764
759-764
759-764
784
759-764
759-764
759-765
762
762
759-765
759-765
761-766
759-764

759-764
775
785

784

760-765
776

784

759-764
762
761-766
761-766

761-766

761-766
743
777
778
779
778
779
779
760-766
760-766

The City Record

92

Purchases and Supplies to sell City-owned property — located at southeast corner
of intersection of Johnston Parkway and Seville Avenue (O 388-97)
Remove barrels containing toxic traffic paint materials — Traffic Engineering and Parking
Department (O 620-97)
Various data entry services convert 1996 wage and tax statements from paper documents and
magnetic tape to machine readable magnetic tapes — Division of Taxation
(O 724-97)

May 21, 1997
759-764
762

762

Health Division
Accept Grant from Ohio Department of Health for 1997 STD (Sexually Transmitted Disease
testing) (O 431-97)
Contract of pharmaceutical supplies (O 432-97)
Grant — 1997 Hepatitis B Immunization Activity Assistance Grant (O 671-97)

762
762
762

Land Reutilization Program
East 81 Street, 1877, 1881 and 1887 — David and Julianna Leach (O 927-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located North of Cedar South of Quincy — West of East 90
Street and East of 93 Street — Fairfax Renaissance (O 253-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1098 and 1102 Ansel Road to Shirle Crumbs
(O 165-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1549 East 84 Street — Susan D. Whatley
(O 167-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1847 East 86 Street — James and Estella McCrary
(O 168-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 1910 East 81 Street and 1908 East 81 Street —
William E. and Delores Harper (O 166-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 6706 Zoeter Avenue — Christine Conner
(O 170-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 8212 Wade Park Avenue — Allie M. McClerkin
(O 169-97)
Land Reutilization Program — located at 998 Parkwood — Choice Construction Company Inc.
(O 116-97)
Lexington Avenue, 7215, 7211 and 7202 — Vernesha and Ronald Boone (O 926-97)

742
780
777
778
779
778
779
779
776
741

Law Department
Legal Aid Society of Cleveland — legal services necessary to defend indigents —
Cleveland Municipal Court (O 627-97)

760-766

Liquor Permits
Denison Avenue, 9503 — objecting to issuance of C1 (R 848-97)
East 55th Street, 1795 — objecting transfer of ownership (R 909-97)
East 55th Street, 1795 — transfer of ownership application (F 903-97)
East 79th Street, 1210 — objecting to issuance of C1 (R 910-97)
Huron Rd. 1st Fl. Unit 6R3, 812 — objecting transfer of ownership (R 913-97)
Lake Shore Blvd., 16300 — objecting — issuance of C1 (R 919-97)
Madison Avenue, 9613 — withdrawing objection — transfer of ownership (R 849-97)
Merwin Avenue, 1575 — objecting — transfer of location (R 914-97)
Payne Avenue, 3133 — objecting — transfer of ownership (R 915-97)
Payne Avenue, 3133 — transfer of ownership (F 901-97)
Payne Avenue, 3528 — objecting — transfer of ownership (R 917-97)
Payne Avenue, 4301 — objecting — transfer of ownership (R 916-97)
Scranton Rd., 2065 — Objecting — issuance of D1 & D2 (R 918-97)
Scranton Road, 2065 — New Application (F 904-97)
Superior Ave., 11003 — Objecting — transfer of location (R 912-97)
Union Avenue, 10221 — transfer of ownership application (F 902-97)
W. 65th Street, 3230 — objecting to issuance of C1 (R 911-97)
Wade Park Avenue, 9200 — objecting transfer of ownership (R 908-97)

775
754
703
754
755
758
775
756
756
703
757
756
757
703
755
703
755
753

Merchant’s Guild of Slavic Village
Merchant’s Guild of Slavic Village — to sell and dispense alcoholic beverages at Morgana
Park — June 29, 1997 (O 906-97)

753

Motor Vehicle License Tax
Rehabilitating and reconstruction of Bosworth Road and Harvard Avenue — Accept allocation
of County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds — City of Cleveland’s share County
of Cuyahoga (O 786-97)

792

761-766

The City Record

May 21, 1997

93

Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division (MVM)
Contract labor and material to repair of replace the fuel dispensing pumps and systems
— for fuel operations, fuel tankers, hydraulic lifts, oil and grease dispensing
equipment stationary air compressor and for emergency cleanup and rep (O 544-97)
Contract of Chevrolet car, van light medium and heavy duty truck parts (O 545-97)
Contract of Cushman equipment parts (O 546-97)
Contract of Ford passenger car parts (O 538-97)
Contract of International truck parts (O 540-97)
Contract of Labor and materials to repair and maintain heavy duty construction equipment
(O 537-97)
Contract of labor and materials needed to repair and replace automotive, truck and
construction equipment glass (O 535-97)
Contract of labor and materials needed to repair and maintain generators
(O 536-97)
Contract of oil and filter changes, valve body recalibration, and rebuilt automatic
Allison transmissions (O 541-97)
Contract of tire repair road service (O 542-97)
Contract of various types of batteries (O 543-97)
E.J. Ward, Inc. — spare replacement parts for fuel control terminals and telephone
consultation (O 615-97)
In-line fuel treatment devices for gasoline and diesel engines (O 211-97)

760-765
760-765
760-765
759-764
759-764
759-764
759-764
759-764
759-765
759-765
759-765
760-766
758-763

Natural Resources Department
Grant — State of Ohio Department of Natural Resources for 1997 Natureworks Program
(O 929-97)

743

Neighborhood Centers Association
Permits — Commissioner of Parking Facilities — provide parking no charge May 20, 1997
— Cleveland Municipal Parking (O 907-97)

753

Ohio Department of Health
Grant — 1997 Hepatitis B Immunization Activity Assistance Grant (O 671-97)

762

Parks Maintenance Division
Clean-Land Ohio — conduct vacant lot maintenance program (O 618-97)

760-766

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Clean-Land Ohio — conduct vacant lot maintenance program (O 618-97)
Contract not to exceed five vehicles — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
(O 666-97)
Contract on sweeper — Parking Facilities Division (O 928-97)
Enter into a Concession Agreement with Holy Moses Water Taxi — In exchange for docking
and operating privileges from Settler’s Landing site — Holy Moses Water Taxi — West
of the RTA tracks, between St. Clair (O 423-97)
Enter into a twelfth amendment — Lease Agreement No. 35620 — existing Lease Agreement
for rental of Broadway YMCA (O 813-97)
Grant — State of Ohio Department of Natural Resources for 1997 Natureworks Program
(O 929-97)

760-766
761-766
742

759-764
761
743

Permits
Amend
of
Permit
(O

Section 1 of Ordinance No. 777-97 — passed May 7, 1997 — permit to Young Audiences
Greater Cleveland (O 905-97)
— Our Lady of Good Counsel Church — May 27, 1997 to June 27, 1997
846-97)

753
787

Personnel and Human Resources Department
Accept — Grant from State of Ohio Bureau of Employment Services — Title II and II —
funds provide for administration of JTPA (O 727-97)
Contract with Applied Benefits Research, Inc. — for professional services to administer
the City’s COBRA program (O 932-97)
Contracts for training services for disadvantaged and employment and training assistance
— enter into contract for delivery of the Adult Training Program (O 728-97)

793

785
744
787

The City Record

94

May 21, 1997

Police Division
Enacting new section 135.56 — relating to authorizing the Director of Public Safety —
enter into agreement with Ohio Department of Public Safety — Third Grade Safety Belt
Program (O 398-97)
Extend retirement dates of five division — Police employees one-year period — Police
Division (O 670-97)

784
762

Port Control Department
Apply and accept grant — FAA grant funds (O 559-97)
Authorizing and directing — payment of membership dues, fees and assessments of the City
of Cleveland — Airport Council International North America — American Association
of Airport Executives for the years 1997 and 1998 (O 558-97)
Contract of automotive parts and supplies for the repair, replacement and maintenance of
airport maintenance vehicles equipment (O 399-97)
Determining the method of making public improvement of rehabilitating taxiway/taxilane
“J” the south cargo ramp and associated appurtenances (O 931-97)
Employ one or more consultants or firms of consultants — provide professional services
for testing and construction inspection services (O 434-97)
Employ one or more professional consultants — provide services for the design layout,
printing and other marketing (O 2150-96)
Employ surveyors or firms of surveyors — survey parcels or portions of parcels of land
(O 625-97)
Enter into Amendments to certain leases with — various signatory airlines at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport — Assignment and Novation with — United Airlines,
Inc. (O 560-97)
Enter into agreement for purchase of telephones and related equipment installation and
maintenance — purchase or lease of installation (O 274-97)
Malcolm Pirnie, Inc. — Environmental Services (O 624-97)

760-765

785
784
744
759-764
775
760-766

760-765
758-763
760-766

Recognitions
Christian Church of God In Christ (R 957-97)
Greater Cleveland Safe Kids Coalition (R 958-97)

703
703

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Recognizing Malcolm X to African American community and commending — 2500 Positive Black
Men to promote diversity to build a strong city (R 850-97)

775

Safety Department
Amend Section 135.063 — Ordinance No. 1309-96 passed September 30, 1996 — uniform
maintenance allowances (O 569-97)
Contract of labor and materials — fabricate and install enlarged street name sign
throughout the City of Cleveland (O 571-97)
Enacting new section 135.56 — relating to authorizing the Director of Public Safety —
enter into agreement with Ohio Department of Public Safety — Third Grade Safety Belt
Program (O 398-97)
Establish No right turn — specific intersection in the City of Cleveland — amend the
schedule on file with the Clerk of Council File No. 106-76 pursuant to Section 413.10
(O 49-97)
Extend retirement dates of five division — Police employees one-year period — Police
Division (O 670-97)
Remove barrels containing toxic traffic paint materials — Traffic Engineering and Parking
Department (O 620-97)
Repeal Sections 670B.01 to 670B.00 of the Codified Ordinances — as amended by enacting
new Sections 670B.01 to 670B.08 and 670B.99 — relating to outdoor pay telephones
(O 933-97)

762
760-765

784

776
762
762

744

Service Department
Amend title, Section 1 and Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1004-91 passed July 24, 1991
— relating to consent of the City of Cleveland — repair and resurfacing of Rocky
River Drive (O 324-97)
Contract labor and material to repair of replace the fuel dispensing pumps and systems
— for fuel operations, fuel tankers, hydraulic lifts, oil and grease dispensing
equipment stationary air compressor and for emergency cleanup and rep (O 544-97)
Contract of Chevrolet car, van light medium and heavy duty truck parts (O 545-97)
Contract of Cushman equipment parts (O 546-97)
Contract of Ford passenger car parts (O 538-97)
Contract of Ford tractor, mower and construction equipment parts (O 539-97)
Contract of International truck parts (O 540-97)
Contract of Labor and materials to repair and maintain heavy duty construction equipment
(O 537-97)

794

758-763

760-765
760-765
760-765
759-764
759-764
759-764
759-764

May 21, 1997

The City Record

Contract of labor and materials needed to repair and maintain generators
(O 536-97)
Contract of labor and materials needed to repair and replace automotive, truck and
construction equipment glass (O 535-97)
Contract of oil and filter changes, valve body recalibration, and rebuilt automatic
Allison transmissions (O 541-97)
Contract of tire repair road service (O 542-97)
Contract of various types of batteries (O 543-97)
Declaring intention — vacate portion of Grayton Road (R 943-97)
Declaring the intention to vacate a portion of Houston Avenue (R 56-97)
Declaring the intention to vacate a portion of East 3rd Street (R 439-97)
Declaring the intention vacate a portion of Adeline Road (R 55-97)
E.J. Ward, Inc. — spare replacement parts for fuel control terminals and telephone
consultation (O 615-97)
Employ one or more firms of certified engineers — provide professional services to
perform geotechnical engineering, material testing, environmental assessments and
construction inspection (O 421-97)
Enter into one or more contracts with Clean-Land Ohio — implement City’s Recycling,
Litter Prevention Education (O 113-97)
In-line fuel treatment devices for gasoline and diesel engines (O 211-97)
Rehabilitating and reconstruction of Bosworth Road and Harvard Avenue — Accept allocation
of County Motor Vehicle License Tax Funds — City of Cleveland’s share County
of Cuyahoga (O 786-97)
Vacate a portion of East 39th Place (O 381-97)
Vacate a portion of East 69th Street (O 382-97)
Vacate a portion of King Court N.E. (O 389-97)

95
759-764
759-764
759-765
759-765
759-765
753
774
762-767
774
760-766

759-764
762
758-763

761-766
759-764
759-764
759-764

Settler’s Landing Park
Enter into a Concession Agreement with Holy Moses Water Taxi — In exchange for docking
and operating privileges from Settler’s Landing site — Holy Moses Water Taxi — West
of the RTA tracks, between St. Clair (O 423-97)

759-764

Street—Vacation
Declaring the intention to vacate a portion of East 3rd Street (R 439-97)
Declaring the intention to vacate a portion of East 12th Street (R 346-97)
Vacate a portion of East 39th Place (O 381-97)
Vacate a portion of East 69th Street (O 382-97)
Vacate a portion of King Court N.E. (O 389-97)

762-767
775
759-764
759-764
759-764

Traffic Engineering and Parking Division
Contract of labor and materials — fabricate and install enlarged street name sign
throughout the City of Cleveland (O 571-97)

760-765

Utilities Department
Determining method making public improvement of demolishing certain obsolete water towers
and pump station (O 1980-96)
Determining the method of public improvement of replacing a sewer on Cooley Avenue
(O 264-97)

758-762
758-763

Water Pollution Control Division
Determining the method of public improvement of replacing a sewer on Cooley Avenue
(O 264-97)

758-763

Zoning
Change the Use District of lands from E. 66th Street to E. 65th Street (O 2219-96)
Change the Use and Area Districts of land on the north side of Payne Avenue between E.
39 Street and E. 38th (O 2218-96)
Change the Use and Height Districts of lands on the northerlyside of Euclid Avenue between
E.84th Street (O 23-97)

795

761-763
761-762
761-763

