The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

September the Twenty-Sixth, Two Thousand and Twelve

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
10
10
12
12
13
13
13
13
14
18
19

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ..................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek.............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli.................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley.................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ...........................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone ....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ..................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady .........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Interim Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100

DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Interim Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry, President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President
Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Interim Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry; Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Interim Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Chairman; Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney;
Councilman Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Interim Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan – Courtroom 13A
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2012

Vol. 99

No. 5155

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Dow,
Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell,
Keane,
Kelley,
Polensek,
Reed.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Bran catelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell,
K.
Johnson,
Kelley,
Mitchell,
Sweeney, Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, Mitchell.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, September 24, 2012
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, the President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Cimperman,
Cleveland,
Conwell,
Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Reed, Sweeney,
Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff, Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer, Chris Warren, Chief of
Regional Development, Monyka S.
Price, Chief of Education, Maureen
Harper, Chief of Communications,
Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of
Public Affairs, and Interim Law
Director
Langhenry,
Directors,
Wasik, Cox, Rush, Rybka, Southerington, Nichols, Fumich, Ambroz
and Teresa Stevenson of Legislative
Affairs.
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection.
Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Sweeney, The Journal of September
12, 2012 (City Record Volume 99,
page 23) is hereby corrected to
reflect the passage under suspen-

1505

sion of the rules of First Reading
Ordinance No. 1240-12, by inserting
the following:
Ord. No. 1240-12.
By
Council
Members
Kelley,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 by enacting
new Section 535.051 relating to testing and monitoring programs and
water bill credits.
Whereas, the Department of Public
Utilities periodically conducts programs for testing and monitoring of
residential and commercial water
quality, distribution operations, and
other testing and monitoring services
determined to be necessary by the
Director of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, in order to conduct these
testing and monitoring programs, the
Department of Public Utilities needs
assistance from the customers; and
Whereas, those customers who
wish to participate and are accepted
into these programs by the Director
of Public Utilities will perform tasks
such as collecting water samples
delivered to their homes or businesses and performing other related tasks
which are out of the ordinary for a
consumer, for the benefit of the
Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, in order to encourage participation in these programs, the
Department of Public Utilities is
offering incentives in the form of
water bill credits to eligible participants who complete the services
under the programs; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 535.051 to read as follows:
Section 535.051 Testing and Monitoring Programs; Water Bill Credits
(a) The Director of Public Utilities
may conduct programs for testing
and monitoring of water distributed
to residential and commercial premises to be performed by the customers.
These programs shall relate to various aspects of the Division of Water
and may include distribution operations, water quality, and other testing
and monitoring determined to be necessary by the Director of Public Utilities.
(b) The Director of Public Utilities
is authorized to provide water bill
credits, to be established by the
Board of Control, to eligible water
customers after successfully complet-

The City Record

4
ing monitoring and testing performed
under a program offered under division (a) of this section. The total
amount of all water bill credits authorized by this division shall not exceed
$10,000 per year.
(c) The Director of Public Utilities
shall establish guidelines for program eligibility and for administering the programs under this section.
The Director shall have the final
approval of all applications.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
and authorizing Ordinance No. 124012 to be reprinted correctly in the
City Record dated September 26,
2012.
The reading of the minutes of the
last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Conwell.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 1395-12.
From Office of Equal Opportunity
— Compliance Report Chapter 188,
August 31, 2012. Bi-Monthly Report.
Received.
File No. 1396-12.
From Office of Equal Opportunity
— City Resident Utilization Report,
August 31, 2012. Bi-Monthly Report.
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1367-12—Chester Gordon.
Res. No. 1368-12—Martin Masterson.
Res. No. 1369-12—Arnold Stankus.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res.
No.
1370-12—Timothy
F.
Hagan.
Res. No. 1371-12—William J. Centa.
Res. No. 1372-12—Dr. Daniel J.
Keenan, Jr.
Res. No. 1373-12—George J. Palko.
Res. No. 1374-12—Larry H. James.
Res. No. 1375-12—Dr. Ruth D.
Peterson.
Res. No. 1376-12—Thomas E. Hopkins.
Res. No. 1377-12—Erin D. Huber.
Res. No. 1378-12—Sheila M. Niles.
Res. No. 1379-12—Michael Hewett,
Commissioner, Division of Printing
& Reproduction.
Res. No. 1380-12—Scott Loomis.
Res. No. 1381-12—Lisa Hart.
Res. No. 1382-12—Richard Marcus.
Res. No. 1383-12—Ronald Manek.
Res. No. 1384-12—Fabulous Food
Show.

Res. No. 1385-12—Rev. Emanuel D.
Debose.
Res. No. 1386-12—Clementine L.
Jackson.
Res. No. 1387-12—Lellar Tignar.
No.
1388-12—St.
Francis
Res.
School (125th Anniversary).
Res. No. 1389-12—Glenville New
Life Community Church, P.C.U.S.A.
(50th Anniversary)
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1390-12—George Cody,
Ph.D.
Res. No. 1391-12—Fady Chamoun,
CEO.
COMMENDATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1392-12—Brittani James.
Res. No. 1393-12—Danae Rock.
WELCOME RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1394-12—The Honorable
Boutros Harb, Member, Lebanese
Parliament.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1362-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire property
from Steelyard Commons LLC and
the State of Ohio at Quigley Road
and Steelyard Commons Drive to
finalize right-of-way dedications at
Steelyard Commons; authorizing the
Director of Capital Projects to execute a deed of easement granting to
Steelyard
Commons
LLC
certain
easement rights in property located
in Quigley Road and Steelyard Commons Drive, and declaring that the
easement rights granted are not
needed for the City’s public use; and
authorizing agreements for other
land donations among parties that
are necessary to finalize right-ofway dedications at Steelyard Commons.
Whereas, the Director of Capital
Projects has requested the acquisition of property, at no cost to the City,
which is located at Quigley Road and
Steelyard Commons Drive from Steelyard Commons LLC and the State of
Ohio to finalize right-of-way dedications at Steelyard Commons; and
Whereas, Steelyard Commons LLC
has requested the Director of Capital
Projects to convey certain easement
rights in property located in Quigley
Road and Steelyard Commons Drive;
and
Whereas, Steelyard Commons LLC
requires an easement to install signage, and for electrical and maintenance activities at Quigley Road and
Steelyard Commons Drive; and
Whereas, the easement rights to be
granted are not needed for the City’s
public use; and

1506

September 26, 2012
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire, at no cost to the City, the
following described property from
Steelyard Commons LLC and the
State of Ohio at Quigley Road and
Steelyard Commons Drive to finalize
right-of-way dedications at Steelyard
Commons:
Parcel 1-WDV
Situated in the State of Ohio, City of
Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga,
Brooklyn Township, T7N, R13W, Lots
72 and 85 and being more fully
described as follows:
Being a parcel of land lying on the
left and right sides of the proposed
centerline of right of way of CUYQUIGLEY ROAD CONNECTOR as
surveyed by URS Corporation and
recorded as Image No.___________ of
the Cuyahoga County Records and
being located within the following
described points on the boundary
thereof;
Beginning for record at the southeast corner of Sublot 15 in the Nicola &
Judson Allotment as recorded in Volume 5, Page 7 of the Cuyahoga County Records, said point being 61.83 feet
left of Station 18+07.38 on the proposed centerline of right of way of
Quigley Road Connector and the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING of the
parcel described herein;
Thence North 01 degrees 51 minutes
47 seconds West, 92.57 feet along the
east line of said Sublot 15 to iron pin
to be set;
Thence North 52 degrees 50 minutes
39 seconds East, 26.74 feet to an iron
pin to be set;
Thence North 37 degrees 47 minutes
01 seconds East, 61.38 feet to an iron
pin to be set;
Thence North 02 degrees 53 minutes
26 seconds West, 55.15 feet to an iron
pin to be set on the south line of an
unrecorded allotment;
Thence North 88 degrees 10 minutes
12 seconds East, 801.45 feet along the
south line of an unrecorded allotment
to iron pin found;
Thence South 44 degrees 16 minutes
13 seconds West, 231.85 feet along
Grantor’s southeast property line to a
point on the Grantor’s easterly line;
Thence South 30 degrees 11 minutes
53 seconds West, 100.47 feet along the
Grantor’s easterly property line, to an
iron pin to be set on the proposed
south right of way line of the Quigley
Road Connector;
Thence South 69 degrees 37 minutes
09 seconds West, 697.21 feet along the
proposed south right of way line of
the Quigley Road Connector to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence South 81 degrees 25 minutes
25 seconds West, 335.14 feet along the
proposed south right of way line of
the Quigley Road Connector to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence South 45 degrees 54 minutes
20 seconds West, 55.95 feet along the
proposed south right of way line of
the Quigley Road Connector to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence South 86 degrees 22 minutes
47 seconds West, 205.98 feet along the

September 26, 2012
proposed south right of way line of
the Quigley Road Connector to an
iron pin to be set
Thence North 16 degrees 55 minutes
39 seconds East, 114.48 feet along
Grantor’s west property line to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence North 25 degrees 21 minutes
38 seconds West, 66.90 feet along
Grantor’s west property line to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence North 67 degrees 02 minutes
55 seconds West, 106.52 feet along
Grantor’s west property line to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence North 88 degrees 03 minutes
33 seconds East, 301.58 feet along
Grantor’s north property line to an
iron pin to be set;
Thence North 01 degrees 56 minutes
31 seconds West, 110.11 feet along
Grantor’s west property line to an
iron pin to be set on the south line of a
one foot reserved strip acquired by
the
State
of
Ohio
per
AFN
200411100762 in the records of Cuyahoga County and the Grantor’s
northerly property line;
Thence North 88 degrees 03 minutes
33 seconds East, 307.65 feet along the
south line of said one foot reserved
strip and the Grantor’s northerly
property line to an iron pin to be set;
Thence North 88 degrees 08 minutes
13 seconds East, 77.70 feet along the
south line of said one foot reserved
strip and the Grantor’s property line
to an iron pin to be set;
Thence North 01 degrees 51 minutes
47 seconds West, 15.00 feet along
Grantor’s property line to the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING containing
8.965 acres (390,536 sq. ft.) more or
less, 5.625 acres being contained within Lot 85 and 3.340 acres being contained within Lot 72.
The above described area is contained within Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel No. 008-36-003.
Based on a field survey conducted
by URS Corporation in November 2004
under the direction and supervision of
Mark Lukosavich, Registered Surveyor No. 8088 in the State of Ohio.
Bearings used herein are based on
Grid North of the State Plane Coordinate system NAD83(Cors96) Ohio
North Zone.
All iron pins referenced herein are
3/4 inch diameter x 30 inch long iron
bars with a 2-1/2 inch aluminum cap
stamped “URS CORP., P.S. 8088”, to be
set after construction.
This description was prepared and
reviewed on January 4, 2006 for URS
Corporation by Kurt Massar, Registered Surveyor No. 7667 in the State of
Ohio.
Part of Parcel 500-WL
Parcel No. 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, being part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 72 and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
West 14th Street, 100 feet wide, at the
Southwesterly corner of Sublot No. 4
in the J.M Curtiss Resubdivision
recorded by plat in Volume 14 of
Maps, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of West 14th Street, 15
feet to a point; thence Easterly on a
line parallel with the Southerly line
of said J.M. Curtiss Resubdivision
and along the Southerly line of the
Nicola and Judson Subdivision of part
of said Original Lot No. 72 recorded in
plat in Volume 5 of Maps, page 7 of

The City Record
Cuyahoga County Records, to the
Southerly Prolongation of the Easterly line of Sublot No. 15 in said Nicola
and Judson Subdivision; thence
Northerly along said Southerly prolongation of said Easterly line Sublot
15, one foot; thence westerly on a line
parallel with the Southerly lines of
the aforementioned Nicola and Judson Subdivision and the J.M. Curtiss
Resubdivision to a point which is distant one foot Easterly from the Easterly line of West 14th Street; thence
Northerly on a line parallel with Easterly line of West 14th Street, 14 feet to
the Southerly line of said Sublot No. 4
in the J.M Curtiss Resubdivision ;
thence westerly along the Southerly
line of said Sublot No. 4 one foot to the
place of beginning, and being known
as the one foot reserved strip shown
in the plat of Nicola and Judson Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 72 recorded in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 7of Cuyahoga
County Records be the same more or
less but subject to all legal highways.
The above described area is contained within Auditor’s Parcel Number 008-13-017.
The intent of the above description
is to acquire all rights the State of
Ohio, Department of Transportation,
has or should have had to “Parcel No.
2” per Instrument # 200411100762 of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Recorder
records.
Parcel No. 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being Sublot No. 4 in
J.M. Curtis Re-allotment and part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
72, as shown by the recorded plat of
said re-allotment in Volume 14 of
Maps, page 20 of Cuyahoga County
Records.
The above described area is contained within Auditor’s Parcel Number 008-13-016.
The intent of the above description
is to acquire all rights the State of
Ohio, Department of Transportation,
has or should have had to “Parcel No.
3” per Instrument # 200411100762 of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Recorder
records.
Parcel No. 3
Situated in the County of Cuyahoga
and State of Ohio and the City fo
Cleveland and known as being part of
sublots 24 and 25 in Nicola and Judson
Allotment, recorded in Volume 5,
Page 7 of Cuyahoga County Record of
Maps and further described as having
a frontage of 100.04 feet along a 14
foot Alley and being 73.09 feet along
its Easterly line an 72.45 feet along its
Westerly line.
The above described area is contained within Auditor’s Parcel Number 008-13-020.
The intent of the above description
is to acquire all rights the State of
Ohio, Department of Transportation,
has or should have had to “Parcel No.
4” per Instrument # 200411100762 of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Recorder
records.
Part of a vacated unnamed alley
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, known as being part Original
Lot No. 72 of Brooklyn Township,
being part of an unnamed alley as
shown on the Nicola and Judson Allotment as recorded in Plat Volume 5,
Page 7 of the Cuyahoga County

1507

5
Recorder
records,
and
further
described as follows:
Being the southerly 7 feet of a portion of a vacated 14 foot unnamed
alley as vacated per City of Cleveland
Ordinance No. 14-06 as passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland the
9th day of January, 2006.
Being a strip of land approximately
251 feet long and 7 feet wide and containing about 1756 square feet of land,
more or less, subject to survey.
The above described area is not
part of any current Cuyahoga County
Auditor parcel number at this time.
The intent of the above described
parcel is to transfer any and all rights
the State of Ohio, Department of
Transportation, has or may have had
in the vacated southerly half of the
portion of the unnamed vacated alley
described above.
New PPN: 008-13-101
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being Consolidated
Parcel “CC” in the Lot Split and Consolidation Plat of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 72 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume
353 of Maps, Page 50 of Cuyahoga
County Records, as appears by said
plat.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City of Cleveland all
necessary documents to acquire and
record the property and to employ and
pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental audits, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property.
Section 3. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
an easement interest in the following
described property is not needed for
the City’s public use:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF A
6,102 SQUARE FOOT (0.1401 ACRE)
SIGN EASEMENT
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot
Number 85, and also known as being a
part of the State of Ohio Department
of Transportation, Permanent Parcel
Number 008-37-003, as recorded in by
AFN 200603080158 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, and further known
as being a part of Parcel 4A of a Lot
Split as recorded in Volume 344 of
Maps, page 96 of Cuyahoga County
Records.
Beginning at a 3/4 inch iron pin
with aluminum cap, “#7394 Ciuni”, at
the southeasterly corner of said State
of Ohio Department of Transportation, Parcel 4A of a Lot Split, at its
intersection with the westerly line of
land now or formerly owned by the
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, Permanent Parcel Number 00837-002, as recorded in Volume 8855,
page 260 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records, and the northeasterly corner
of land now or formerly owned by
Steelyard Commons LLC, an Ohio limited liability company, Permanent
Parcel Number 008-36-003, and further
known as being Parcel 5A of a Lot
Split, as recorded in Volume 347 of
Maps, page 95 of Cuyahoga County
Records;

6
Thence South 70°07'09" West along
the northerly line of said Steelyard
Commons LLC, Parcel 5A of a Lot
Split, and the southerly line of said
State of Ohio Department of Transportation, Parcel 4A of a Lot Split, a
distance of 175.48 feet to a point therein, and the Principal Place of Beginning of the land intended to be
described herein;
Thence South 70°07'09" West continuing along said northerly and
southerly lines, a distance of 60.86
feet to a point therein;
Thence North 19°52'51" West, a distance of 109.93 feet to a point of curve;
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, and having a
radius of 74.50 feet, a central angle of
91°55'43", a tangent of 77.05 feet, a
chord of 107.12 feet which bears South
58°00'19" East, a distance of 119.53
feet to a point of compound curvature;
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, and having a
radius of 199.50 feet, a central angle
of 07°31'48", a tangent of 13.13 feet, a
chord of 26.20 feet which bears South
08°16'33" East, a distance of 26.22 feet
to the Principal Place of Beginning,
and containing 6,102 Square Feet
(0.1401 acre) of land, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways and easements of record.
Section 4. That the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized
to convey the above-described easement interest to Steelyard Commons
LLC subject to any conditions stated
in this ordinance, at a price of $1.00
and for other valuable consideration,
which is determined to be fair market
value.
Section 5. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to install signage, and for electrical and maintenance activities at Quigley Road and
Steelyard Commons Drive.
Section 6. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that the
easement shall not be assignable
without the consent of the Director of
Capital Projects; that the easement
shall require that Steelyard Commons
LLC provide reasonable insurance,
maintain any Steelyard Commons
LLC improvements located within the
easement; pay any applicable taxes
and assessments; and shall contain
such other terms and conditions that
the Director of Law determines to be
necessary to protect and benefit the
City.
Section 7. That the conveyance referenced above shall be made by official deed of easement prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Director of Capital Projects on behalf
of the City of Cleveland. The Directors of Capital Projects and Law are
authorized to execute any other documents, including without limitation,
contracts for right of entry, as may be
necessary to effect the improvement.
Section 8. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State of Ohio and/or Steelyard Commons LLC for additional land donations from the State of Ohio and/or
Steelyard Commons LLC that may be
necessary to finalize right-of-way
dedications at Quigley Road, Steelyards Common Drive and Jennings
Road in the vicinity of Steelyard Commons.
Section 9. That the agreements
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.

The City Record
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1363-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
employ one or more professional consultants to design the improvement of
resurfacing East 9th Street from
North Marginal Road to Carnegie
Avenue and from Ontario Street from
Lakeside Avenue to 900 feet north of
Carnegie Avenue; authorizing the
Director to accept cash contributions
from the Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority, Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District, and private
utility companies for costs associated
with the improvement and to enter
into agreements; giving consent of
the City of Cleveland to the County of
Cuyahoga for the improvement; to
apply for and accept an allocation of
County Motor Vehicle License Tax
Funds for the improvement; authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire and record for
right-of-way purposes such real property as is necessary to make the
improvement; authorizing the Director to enter into any agreements relative thereto; and cause payment to the
County for the City’s share of the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services
necessary
to
design
the
improvement of resurfacing East
9th Street from North Marginal Road
to
Carnegie
Avenue
and
from
Ontario
Street
from
Lakeside
Avenue to 900 feet north of Carnegie
Avenue (the “Improvement”).
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Capital Projects from
a list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Capital Projects for the purpose of compiling a
list. The compensation to be paid for
the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Capital Projects, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
cash contributions from the Greater
Cleveland Regional Transit Authori-

1508

September 26, 2012
ty, Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer
District, and private utility companies for infrastructure restoration
costs associated with relocating,
rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for the Improvement. That the Director of Capital
Projects is authorized to enter into
agreements with the entities for this
purpose.
Section 3. That, when appropriate,
the Director of Capital Projects is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with the railroads, the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority, the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District and other entities to
obtain services or to acquire property
rights such as easements and licenses,
necessary
to
construct
the
improvements described in this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with private
utility companies to pay charges for
the installation of underground lines
in connection with the Improvement.
Section 5. That it is declared to be in
the public interest that the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
County of Cuyahoga (“the County”) to
construct the Improvement under
plans, specifications, and estimates
approved by the County.
Section 6. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the County in the cost
of the Improvement to the extent of
funds received by an allocation from
the County Motor Vehicle $5.00
License Tax Fund; and by applying to
Cuyahoga County to use the License
Tax Fund for the Improvement. The
County will arrange for the preparation of construction plans and specifications, including necessary engineering reports for the Improvement,
under current County standards for
construction of County roads and
bridges. The County will arrange for
the supervision and administration of
the construction project. However,
the City agrees to assume and contribute 100% of the cost of any items
included in the construction contract
at the request of the City, which are
determined by the County not eligible
or made necessary by the Improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
County necessary to complete the
planning and construction of the
Improvement,
which
agreements
shall contain terms and conditions
that the Director of Law determines
shall best protect the public interest.
Section 8. That on completion of the
Improvement, the City will:
(a) Keep the affected highway
open to traffic at all times;
(b) Maintain the Improvement
according to the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial and other provisions
for the maintenance;
(c) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a manner satisfactory to the County and
hold the right-of-way inviolate for
public highway purposes and permit
no signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands, or other private installations
within the limits of the right-of-way;
(d) Place and maintain all traffic
control devices under the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
under the provisions of Section
4511.11 and related sections of the
Revised Code;

September 26, 2012
(e) Follow and maintain post-construction Best Management Practices
as outlined in the Municipal Storm
Water Permit that is filed with the
Environmental
Protection
Ohio
Agency; and
(f) Prohibit all parking within the
limits of the roadway which is a part
of the Improvement under Section
4511.66 of the Revised Code, unless
otherwise controlled by City ordinance or resolution.
Section 9. (a) That all existing
streets and public rights-of-way within the City that are necessary for the
Improvement shall be made available.
(b) That in the event any additional right-of-way is required for the
Improvement the Director of Capital
Projects will arrange for its acquisition.
(c) That the County shall continue
to maintain the structural elements of
any bridge (defined as a structure
with a span of twenty (20) feet or
greater) within the limits of the
Improvement under applicable sections of the Revised Code.
(d) That the street within the limits
of the Improvement is designated a
through highway within the meaning
of division (A(6) of Section 4511.07 of
the Revised Code.
(e) That arrangements have been
or will be made with and agreements
obtained from all utility companies
whose lines or structures will be
affected by the Improvement. That
the companies have agreed to make
any and all necessary rearrangements in such manner as to be clear of
any construction called for by the
plans for the Improvement. That the
companies have agreed to make necessary rearrangements immediately
after notification by the City.
(f) That the City, at its own
expense, shall make all rearrangements of water mains, service lines,
fire hydrants, valve boxes, sanitary
sewers, or other City-owned utilities
and appurtenances which do not comply with the provisions of ODOT
Directive No. 28-A, whether inside or
outside the corporate limits of the
City, as may be necessary to conform
to the Improvement, and that the
rearrangements shall be done at such
time as requested by the City.
(g) That the County will participate in the costs of alterations of governmentally-owned utility facilities
which come within the provisions of
Section 8204 (Utility Reimbursement
eligibility) of the Ohio Department of
Transportation’s Real Estate Policies
and Procedure Manual to the same
extent that it participates in the other
costs of the Improvement, provided
that such participation will not
extend to additions or betterments of
existing facilities.
(h) That the construction, reconstruction, and rearrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner as
not to interfere unduly with the operations of the contractor or contractors
constructing the Improvement, and
all backfilling of trenches made necessary by utility rearrangement shall
be performed under the provisions of
the ODOT Construction and Material
Specifications.
(i) If applicable, that stop signs
affecting the movement of traffic on
any street within the limits of the
Improvement shall be removed and no
stop signs will be erected except at
intersections with another through
highway where traffic does not war-

The City Record
rant the installation of a traffic control signal but where the warrants for
a “Four-Way Stop” as provided in the
aforesaid manual are met.
(j) That no rule or regulation may
be enacted restricting the use of the
Improvement by any class of vehicle
or vehicle load permitted by the
Revised code to use a public highway.
Any existing rule or regulation so
restricting road usage is rescinded.
Section 9a. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
the County for an allocation from the
County Motor Vehicle License Tax
Fund to pay the County portion of the
Improvement, and to enter into one or
more agreements with the County as
are necessary to finance the Improvement.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
the County for approval to use County
Motor Vehicle License Tax funds to
pay for the Improvement, to accept
the funds and to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in this ordinance.
Section 11. That this Council
requests the County to proceed with
the Improvement.
Section 12. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire and record for right-of-way
purposes such real property as is necessary to make the Improvement. The
consideration to be paid for the property shall not exceed fair market
value.
Section 13. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire the property and
to employ and pay all fees for title
companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, review appraisers, and all other
costs necessary for the acquisition of
the property.
Section 14. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter
into any relative agreements with the
County of Cuyahoga necessary to
effectuate the Improvement.
Section 15. That this Council authorizes payment to the State of Ohio for
the City’s share of the cost of the
Improvement.
Section 16. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the County of Cuyahoga three
(3) certified copies of this ordinance
immediately on its taking effect, and
it shall become the basis for proceeding with the Improvement.
Section 17. That the cost of the contracts, property acquisition, and other
expenditures authorized in this ordinance shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20
SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF 500,
20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520, 20 SF
528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540, and 20 SF 546,
Request No. RQS 0103, RL 2012-147.
Section 18. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

1509

7
Ord. No. 1366-12.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to enter into
an agreement with the City of Bratenahl, Ohio to provide prosecution services in the Cleveland Municipal
Court to the City of Bratenahl, Ohio,
on a month to month basis, unless
sooner canceled or terminated under
its terms.
Whereas, the Charter of the City of
Cleveland provides at Section 84 that
the Director of Law shall be the Prosecuting Attorney of the Cleveland
Municipal Court; and
Whereas, Section 9.482(B) of the
Revised Code provides that a political
subdivision may enter into an agreement with another political subdivision to render a service for that political subdivision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Law is authorized to enter into an
agreement with the City of Bratenahl, Ohio to provide prosecution
services in the Cleveland Municipal
Court to the City of Bratenahl, Ohio,
on a month to month basis, unless
sooner canceled or terminated under
its terms.
Section 2. That the agreement shall
be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 1365-12.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution supporting the American Lung Association in
its campaign to protect the Clean Air
Act, urging the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency to fully employ
and enforce the Clean Air Act, and
opposing all attempts to weaken,
delay or otherwise prevent the EPA
from enforcing the Clean Air Act.
Whereas, polluted outdoor air is
now recognized as a public health
problem nationally, statewide and
locally; and
Whereas, numerous studies confirm deleterious health effects from
air pollution levels once deemed safe;
and
Whereas, air pollution exacerbates
chronic lung disease and asthma
resulting in increased numbers of
emergency room visits and hospitalization, and is also implicated in
heart disease, strokes and premature
deaths; and
Whereas, air pollution particularly
affects the most vulnerable citizens:
seniors, children and those with compromised health; and
Whereas, since 1970, the Clean Air
Act has protected the air we breathe
through a proven, comprehensive,
successful system of pollution control

The City Record

8
that saves lives and creates economic
benefits exceeding its costs; and
Whereas, the Clean Air Act develops scientifically based standards for
Particular Matter (soot), Ground
Level Ozone (smog), Mercury and Air
Toxics and Carbon Pollution to protect the public from their hazardous
effects; and
Whereas, healthy air will protect
the public health, save lives and
reduce health care costs; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby supports the American Lung
Association in its campaign to protect the Clean Air Act, urges the
Environmental
Protection
U.S.
Agency to fully employ and enforce
the Clean Air Act, and opposes all
attempts to weaken, delay or otherwise prevent the EPA from enforcing the Clean Air Act.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to forward copies
of this resolution to Verna Riffe
Biemel, American Lung Association
in Ohio, Lisa Jackson, EPA Administrator and all members of the United
States Congress.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1364-12.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of Liquor License of a
C2 and C2X Permit to 14302 Harvard
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a transfer of
Liquor License of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Frank McLeod,
DBA McLeod Deli, 12518 Shaw
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent
Number 57727730001 to Ramzy Abed,
14302 Harvard Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44128,
Permanent
Number
0024014; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and

Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of Liquor License of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Frank McLeod,
DBA
McLeod
Deli,
12518
Shaw
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent
Number 57727730001 to Ramzy Abed,
14302 Harvard Avenue, Cleveland,
44128,
Permanent
Number
Ohio
0024014; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 744-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Keane, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of constructing a transient marina at the East 9th Street
pier and associated support facilities
and amenities; authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into one or
more contracts for the making of the
improvement; authorizing design services, construction management and
other related services; acquiring any
real property and easements necessary for right-of-way purposes; to
enter into various written standard
purchase and requirement contracts;

1510

September 26, 2012
authorizing one or more professional
consultants for marina management
services; authorizing submerged land
leases; authorizing the Director to
apply for and accept gifts, grants, and
other funding from public and private
entities, including the gift or loan of
equipment; authorizing the Director
to fix and charge docking fees; for a
period of five years with one five-year
option to renew, exercisable through
additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation,
City
Planning,
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 19, 20, 21,
and 22 in their entirety and insert
“equipment; and authorizing the fixing and charging of docking fees.”.
2. In Section 4, strike lines 5 and
6 in their entirety and insert “marina management services, for a period of one year, with three one-year
options to renew. The first of the
one-year options to renew may be
exercised by the Director of Port
Control, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council. The second of the oneyear options to renew may not be
exercised without additional legislative authority.
If such additional
legislative authority is granted and
the second of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the third of
the one-year options to renew may
be exercisable at the option of the
Director of Port Control, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1060-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Conwell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
lease certain space located in The
Allerton Apartments at 1802 East 13th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio from Allerton
Apartments, LP, for a term of five
years, for the public purpose of establishing and operating an auxiliary
police station.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1070-12.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an Option to Lease Agreement, for a period of one year, with a
one-year option to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Port Control, with
Geis Construction, Inc., an Ohio Corporation, or its designee, for an area
known as the Burke Development
District in order to market the district
for future redevelopment.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage rec-

September 26, 2012
ommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 8, after “1070-12A.” insert “A copy of the approved
legal description will be placed in the
file when it is obtained.”; and in line 9
after “one year,” insert “which term
shall begin on the effective date of
this ordinance,”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1082-12.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
lease Docks 28B, 30, and 32, excluding
the warehouses on Docks 30 and 32, to
the Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC for year-round surface
parking and for staging special event
programming.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1245-12.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of ready mix
concrete, materials, and supplies, for
the various divisions of City government, for a period of one year, with a
one-year option to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1247-12.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration for the
Regional Drug Court Project; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more agreements with various
suburban municipal courts, Recovery
Resources, Inc., Community Assessment and Treatment Services, and
Case Western Reserve University to
implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1248-12.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Bureau of Justice Assistance for the

The City Record
Veterans Treatment Docket Program;
and to enter into one or more contracts with Stella Maris, Inc., Case
Western Reserve University, and
Cuyahoga County to implement the
program.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1249-12.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Office of Criminal Justice Services for
the Veterans Treatment Docket Program; and to enter into one or more
contracts with Stella Maris, Inc. to
implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1250-12.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Bureau of Justice Assistance for the
Adult Drug Court Expansion Grant;
and authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more agreements with
South Euclid Municipal Court, Recovery Resources, Inc. and Case Western
Reserve University to implement the
grant.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1252-12.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 2 and 8 of Ordinance No. 1608-11, passed March 19,
2012, relating to the cooperative
agreement with the Cleveland-Cuyahoga Port Authority regarding the
use of proceeds generated from parking activities and to transfer the balance to the City, to establish a Downtown Lakefront Management special
revenue fund, and authorizing contracts to operate, maintain, and manage The Downtown Lakefront.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1253-12.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance No. 1607-11, passed March 26,
2012, relating to the authorizing the
Mayor and the Directors of Public
Works and Port Control to enter into

1511

9
a Third Amendment and Restatement
to Common Area Maintenance Agreement No. 48828 for the development,
use, maintenance and operation of the
common area of the North Coast Harbor.
Approved by Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1255-12.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of firefighting protective gear,
for the Division of Fire, Department
of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1264-12.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Relations to apply for and accept a grant
from Cuyahoga County for the Juvenile Court’s Community Diversion
Program – Ancillary Fund Grant; and
authorizing the Director to enter into
one or more agreements with Guidestone and the City of East Cleveland
to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Community Relations Board, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1324-12.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of the Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Bureau of Justice Assistance for the
Smart Probation Grant; and authorizing the Director to enter into an
agreement
with
Case
Western
Reserve University and Cuyahoga
County to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance, when amended,
as follows:
1. In the title, line 8 in its entirety
and insert “, Cuyahoga County, and a
service provider to implement the
grant.”.
2. In Section 4, line 3, strike “and
Cuyahoga County” and insert “,
Cuyahoga County, and a service
provider for automated telephone
reporting acceptable to the court
and the grantor,”.
3. In Section 6, line 1, strike
“agreement”
and
insert
“agreements”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

The City Record

10
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1336-12.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the first option to renew Contract
No. MA 1505 RC 2010-79 with H. Leff
Electric for materials, parts, and supplies necessary for the electrical
maintenance of facilities, including
labor when necessary, and for high
and medium voltage testing equipment and safety equipment, for the
various divisions of City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
MOTION
By Council Member Sweeney, seconded by Council Member Conwell
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Member Anthony
Brancatelli be and is hereby authorized.

MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:55 p.m. to meet on Monday, October 1, 2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
September 19, 2012
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, September 19,
2012 at 10:39 a.m. with Interim Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Interim
Director
Langhenry, Director Dumas, Acting
Director O. Shaw, Directors Smith,
Cox, Butler, Rush, Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Others: JoMarie Wasik, Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Interim
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.

On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 473-12.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
through the Director of Finance,
entered into an agreement with
Resources Connection, LLC d/b/a
Resource
Global
Professionals
City
Contract
No.
(“Agency”),
PS2012*222, based on its July 30,
2012 proposal, to supply two temporary employees for a period of 120
days, to conduct a review and
assessment of certain Division of
Fire training records, for the Division of Internal Audit, Department
of Finance, for a fee not to exceed
$47,800.00; and
Whereas, in the testing of records
performed under the contract to
the
temporary
employees
date,
found additional Division of Fire
training databases, thereby requiring additional hours of services to
review and assess them to complete
the Fire Training Records Review;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 263-12,
passed by the Cleveland City Council on March 26, 2012, authorizes the
Director of Finance to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
temporary employment agency or
agencies for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland to provide the
professional services necessary to
supply temporary personnel for the
Department of Finance, for a period
not exceeding one year; and
Whereas, the Agency has proposed, by its September 14, 2012 Fee
Proposal for Additional Hours, to
provide the necessary additional
hours of services of the temporary
personnel supplied to complete the
Fire Training Records Review, for
an additional fee not to exceed
$22,500.00; and
Whereas, the City desires to supplement Contract No. PS2012*222, on
the basis of Agency’s Fee Proposal,
to include the additional services of
the temporary employees necessary
to
complete
the
Fire
Training
Records Review; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
263-12, passed by the Cleveland City
Council on March 26, 2012, Resources
Connection, LLC d/b/a Resource
Global Professionals (“Agency”) is
selected from a list of firms determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Finance as
the firm to be employed by contract
to
supplement
the
regularly
employed staff of several departments of the City of Cleveland to
perform the professional services
necessary to supply two temporary
employees for a period of 120 days,
to conduct a review and assessment
of certain Division of Fire training
records, for the Division of Internal
Audit, Department of Finance.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into a contract with Agency,
based on its July 30, 2012 proposal,
and its September 14, 2012 Fee Proposal for Additional Hours, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide for
the furnishing of professional services as described above and in the

1512

September 26, 2012
proposals, for a total fee not to
exceed $70,300.00, and shall contain
such additional provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Director Dumas, Acting Director O.
Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Butler,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 474-12.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1628-10, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on January 24,
2011, Efacec ACS Inc. is selected
from a list of firms determined after
a full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities as the
firm to be employed by contract to
supplement the regularly employed
staff of the Public Utilities Department of the City of Cleveland to provide professional services necessary
to acquire licenses and provide a
backup SCADA control center at the
East Side Service Center, including
installing, implementing, integrating, interfacing, testing, and training, and for maintenance, technical
support, and other related issues for
a period up to two years for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into contract with
Efacec ACS Inc., based on its proposal dated July 3, 2012, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall provide for the furnishing of professional services as
described in the proposal for a fee
of $548,973.30, and shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Efacec ACS Inc. for
the
above-mentioned
professional
services is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Apple AGC Consultants,
LLC (CSB/FBE/LPE)

Control Systems
(CSB/MBE)

$66,654.00
12.14%

$31,105.00
5.67%

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Director Dumas, Acting Director O.
Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Butler,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 475-12.
By Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 984-07, passed by the
City of Cleveland Council on August
8, 2007, the City of Cleveland,
through the Director of Public Utilities, entered into an agreement

September 26, 2012
with Ventyx, City Contract No.
67844, for professional services necessary to maintain the Ventyx Customer Suite, Service Suite and Asset
software,
including
new
Suite
releases, patches and fixes, technical support and product research
and improvement for the one-year
period starting August 1, 2008, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
(“C.O.”), and Resolution No. 27-10,
adopted by this Board of Control on
January 27, 2010, the City of Cleveland, through the Director of Public
Utilities, entered into a first modification (numbered as PS2010*61) to
Contract No. 67844 for professional
services necessary to maintain the
Ventyx software system for the oneyear period starting August 1, 2009;
and
Whereas, under the same authority of Section 181.102 C.O., and Resolution No. 444-10, adopted by this
Board of Control on October 27, 2010,
the City of Cleveland, through the
Director of Public Utilities, entered
into a second modification to Contract No. PS2010*61 for professional
services necessary to maintain the
Ventyx software system for the oneyear period starting August 1, 2010;
and
Whereas, division (c) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director,
previously authorized to acquire a
software system, to execute one or
more license agreements for software needed to implement or maintain the system directly with the
firm(s) licensing the software; and
Whereas, division (d) of Section
181.102 C.O. authorizes a director,
previously authorized to contract
with a software developer or vendor
to acquire software, to enter into an
agreement with the developer or
vendor for professional services necessary to perform as-needed services
to implement or maintain the software products, including but not
limited
to,
maintenance,
repair,
upgrades, migration, enhancements
and technical support; and
Whereas, under division (d) of
Section 181.102 C.O., the City intends
to enter into two (2) one-year agreements with Ventyx, Inc. for additional maintenance and technical
support services to implement and
maintain
the
Ventyx
Customer
Suite, Service Suite and Asset Suite
software for the one-year terms
starting August 1, 2011 and August
1, 2012 respectively; and
Whereas, Consultant has proposed
by its July 16, 2012 Order Form to
perform the additional maintenance
and technical support services for
one year starting August 1, 2011 for
a fee of $152,403.00; and,
Whereas, Consultant has also proposed, by the same Order Form, to
perform the additional maintenance
and technical support services for
one year starting August 1, 2012 for
a fee of $152,403.00 + CPI; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
under division (e) of Section 181.102
C.O., that the compensation to be
paid Ventyx Inc. for additional
maintenance and technical support
services for the Ventyx Customer
Suite, Service Suite, and Asset Suite

The City Record
software for the one-year terms
starting August 1, 2011 and August
1, 2012 shall be fixed at $152,403.00
and $152,403.00 + CPI, respectively.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Director Dumas, Acting Director O.
Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Butler,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 476-12.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by EnviroCom Construction, Inc., under City Contract
No.
PI2012*002
for
the
public
of
renovating
and
improvement
upgrading the Federal Services Station Building at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, authorized by
Ordinance No. 273-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 8, 2009, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 465-11, as amended by
Resolution No. 127-12, Resolution No.
294-12 and Resolution No. 395-12,
adopted September 21, 2011, March
28, 2012, July 5, 2012 and August 15,
2012, respectively, is approved.
Subconsultant

CSB/MBE/FBE %
Amount

Cleveland Vicon Co., Inc.
0.92% Non CSB/MBE/FBE
$14,863.00
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Director Dumas, Acting Director O.
Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Butler,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 477-12.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Hans’ Truck and Trailer
Repair, Inc. dba Hans’ Freightliner
of Cleveland, for an estimated quantity of two cab & chassis with dump
bodies
and
related
equipment,
including option one, and two cab &
chassis with dump bodies and related equipment, including option two,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Works, for the period of one year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on June
1, 2012, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1602-10, passed by Cleveland City Council on December 6,
2010,
and
Ordinance
No.
943-11,
passed by Cleveland City Council on
July 20, 2011, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$539,959.70
(Net),
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
specified goods.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish all of the City’s
requirements for the goods and/or
services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under delivery orders separately certified to the contract.

1513

11
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subcontractor
by Hans’ Truck and Trailer Repair,
Inc. dba Hans’ Freightliner of Cleveland, is approved:
Subcontractor

Percentage
Amount

Concord Road Equipment

NA
$135,545.84

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Director Dumas, Acting Director O.
Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Butler,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 478-12.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that all bids received on September
14,
2012
for
Public
Auditorium
HVAC Improvements for the Department of Public Works, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 68408, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on July 2, 2008 are
rejected.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Director Dumas, Acting Director O.
Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Butler,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 479-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 132-10-178 located at 3810 East
57th Street in Ward 12; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Landis Warner has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is

12
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Landis Warner,
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 132-10-178 located
at 3810 East 57th Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Director Dumas, Acting Director O.
Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Butler,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 480-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 141-17-051 located at 16701 Holly
Hill in Ward 1; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, the Harvard Community
Services Center has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcel for redevelopment; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 1 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Denise Knight
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 141-17-051 located
at 16701 Holly Hill, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$500.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Director Dumas, Acting Director O.
Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Butler,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.

The City Record
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 481-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 019-21-097 located at 12600 Firsby Avenue in Ward 17; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Kernals Property Group,
LLC has proposed to the City to purchase and develop the parcel for
yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 17 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Kernals Property
Group, LLC for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No.
019-21-097 located at 12600 Firsby
Avenue, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Director Dumas, Acting Director O.
Shaw, Directors Smith, Cox, Butler,
Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,

1514

September 26, 2012
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2012
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 12-141: 5902 Storer
Avenue (Ward 15)
MSM Family Investment, owner,
appeal to change use of a two-story
building from two dwelling units to
one dwelling and a pizza shop located on a 75.54' x 37.32' corner parcel
in a C1 General Retail Business District; two parking spaces are proposed contrary to 10 spaces required
according to Section 349.04(f) and a
landscape strip 6 feet wide is
required along Storer Avenue where
the parking lot abuts the street in
accordance with Section 352.10 in
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
(Filed 8-2-12; dismissed 9-4-12; reinstated (9-17-12)
Calendar No. 12-148: 1461 East 116th
Street (Ward 9)
Timothy Payne appeals under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland and Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances and disputes the
decision rendered ex parte on June
11, 2012 by the City of Cleveland
Parking Violations Bureau Photo
Safety Division and the violation
information
described
on
Civil
Infraction
Ticket
Number
WC00093906, issued April 11, 2012 for
the property located at 1461 East
116th Street and failure to comply
with the provisions under Chapter
551 in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances. (Filed 8-9-12)
Calendar No. 12-166 1749 West 32nd
Street (Ward 3)
Kerry Noonan, owner, appeals to
erect a 22' x 20' one-story frame,
reverse gable garage on a 40' x
128.51' parcel located in a B1 TwoFamily District; requesting a distance of 5 feet contrary to Section
337.23 and a requirement of 10 feet
for the distance of an accessory

The City Record

September 26, 2012
garage from a main
adjoining lot in a
trict, according to
Codified Ordinances.

building on an
Residence Disthe Cleveland
(Filed 9-12-12)

Calendar No. 12-168: 3689 West 159th
Street (Ward 19)
Lucilleville LLC and Dean Hinterberger, owner, appeal to install an
air conditioning unit in the side
yard of a 50' x 73.65' parcel in a B1
Two-Family District; subject to the
restrictions
under
Sections
357.09(b)(2)(B), in any use district
no interior side yard on a lot occupied by a dwelling house shall be
less than 3 feet in width and an air
conditioning unit is not a permitted
interior side yard encroachment in
the provisions of Section 357.13 of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

13

property in a B1 Two-Family District.
following
The
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

None.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

PUBLIC NOTICE

Calendar No. 11-125: 1130 Ivanhoe
Road
G.Z.T., Inc., owner, and John
Hirko, prospective tenant, appealed
to establish a landscape supply yard
and stockpiling use in a Local
Retail Business District.

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE
The following appeals were POSTPONED:

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
None.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2012
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, September 24, 2012, the following appeals
were heard by the Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 12-117: 11614 Madison
Avenue
CPT Investments, LLC, owner,
and Jeremiah Ward, prospective tenant, appealed to establish use for a
tattoo parlor in a B3 Semi-Industry
District; subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 12-149: Violation Notice
3342 West 58th Street
Darren Morgan appealed from a
decision by a designee of the Director of Public Works regarding Civil
Infraction
Ticket
WC00136945;
penalty amount reduced.
Calendar No. 12-152: Violation Notice
1337 East 85th Street
Cyril Weathers appealed from a
decision by a designee of the Director of Public Works regarding Civil
Infraction
Ticket
WC00064477;
penalty amount reduced.
Calendar No. 12-155: 11211 Juniper
Road
Case Western Reserve University
appealed to construct a temporary
parking lot on an acreage parcel in
a D5 Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 12-104: Violation Notice
3180 West 105th Street
VR Property Group LLC appealed
from a decision by a designee of the
Director of Public Works regarding
Civil Infraction Ticket WC00113670;
penalty amount reduced.
Calendar No. 12-62: 1762 East 89th
Street
Tina
Humphrey
appealed
to
change use of a residential dwelling
to a Type A Day Care; subject to lot
consolidation and revised plan.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

The following appeals heard by
the Board on September 17, 2012
were adopted and approved on September 24, 2012.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 12-103: 10926 Hampden
Avenue
Lenora Kelton appealed to erect
100 linear feet of 4 feet high chain
link fence and a gate in a B1 TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 12-119: 3300 Clinton
Avenue
Jason Bristol appealed to erect a
two-story single family dwelling on
a corner parcel in a B1 Two-Family
District.
Calendar No. 12-131: Violation Notice
3524 East 133rd Street
Ernest Young appealed from a
decision rendered by the designee of
the
Director
of
Public
Service
regarding Civil Infraction Ticket
Number WC00125252 citing failure to
comply with Section 551.111(A).
The following appeal heard by the
Board on August 6, 2012 was adopted and approved on September 24,
2012.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeal

was

Calendar
No.
12-54:
6607
Park
Avenue
Bernadine
Gusley,
owner,
and
Jose
Ortiz,
prospective
tenant,
appealed to establish use for scrap
metal storing and processing in a B2
General Industry District; subject to
conditions.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on September 4, 2012 was
adopted and approved on September
24, 2012.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeal

was

was

Calendar No. 12-158: 2027 West 81st
Street
Rafael Morales appealed to erect
a 6 feet high wooden fence with the
unfinished side facing the adjacent

Calendar No. 12-136: 903 Royal Road
Maurice Daugherty appealed to
erect an addition to an existing
garage in a C1 Multi-Family District.
Secretary

1515

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2012
File No. 121-12 – Purchase of LED
Street Light Luminaires for a
Pilot Project, Phase III, for the
Division
of
Cleveland
Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
Nos. 558-11 and 1215-11, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleve-

The City Record

14
land, July 20, 2011 and October 10,
2011, respectively.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2012 AT
10:30 A.M. THE TOM L. JOHNSON
BUILDING,
1300
LAKESIDE
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
AVENUE,
44114.
September 19, 2012 and September 26, 2012
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2012
File No. 120-12 – West Sixth Street
Streetscape,
West
Lakeside
Avenue to West St. Clair Avenue
and Professor Street Intersection,
for the Division of Engineering
and Construction, Mayor’s Office
of Capital Projects, as authorized
by Ordinance Nos. 1570-11 and
1571-11, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, December
5, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
IN
THE
SPECIFICATIONS
AMOUNT OF SEVENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($75.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
TO
PURCHASE
ACCEPTED
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 4, 2012 AT 10:00 A.M.
CLEVELAND CITY HALL, ROOM
518, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
September 19, 2012, September 26, 2012
and October 3, 2012
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2012
File No. 119-12 – Cedar Avenue
Reconstruction (East 89th Street
to MLK Jr. Drive), for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 592-11, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 6, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF SEVENTY FIVE
DOLLARS ($75.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 4, 2012 AT 1:00 P.M.
CLEVELAND CITY HALL, ROOM
514, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
September 19, 2012, September 26, 2012
and October 3, 2012

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1334-12.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 2559
East 55th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at 2559 East 55th Street, LLC,
DBA Discounts R Us, 2559 East 55th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number 9115224; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 2559 East 55th
Street, LLC, DBA Discounts R Us,
2559 East 55th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
9115224; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 17, 2012.
Effective September 20, 2012.

1516

September 26, 2012
Res. No. 1337-12.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution supporting the application of the Painters
Loft Condominiums Owners’ Association, Inc. to the Ohio Department of
Development for State Historic Tax
Credits for the Painters Loft Condominiums located on Franklin Boulevard.
Whereas, each year the State of
Ohio through the Ohio Department of
Development allocates State Historic
Tax Credits for historic housing
developments throughout Ohio using
a competitive proposal process; and
Whereas, the Cleveland City Council has recognized the need to maintain historic housing in Cleveland’s
neighborhoods; and
Whereas, the Painters Loft Condominiums, located on Franklin Boulevard, are 20 two-bedroom units, 12 of
which are currently occupied, in what
was originally a warehouse used for
paint storage; and
Whereas, the unique loft-style condominiums appeal to young professionals, adding diversity to the thriving Detroit Shoreway/Gordon Square
arts district;
Whereas, the Painters Loft Condominium building is in desperate need
of repair as identified in an engineering study completed in 2011, including full roof replacement, masonry
defects and other building issues,
which issues keep the remaining
units from being sold; and
Whereas, the Painters Loft Condominiums Owners’ Association, Inc. is
proposing capital improvements to
the Painters Loft Condominiums and
intends to begin such improvement in
the spring of 2013; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
supports the Painters Loft Condominiums Owners’ Association, Inc.’s
proposal for the Painters Loft Condominiums as a high priority initiative
for future development in the community for the benefit the citizens of the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the application of the Painters
Loft Condominiums Owners’ Association, Inc. to the Ohio Department
of Development for State Historic
Tax Credits for the Painters Loft
Condominiums located on Franklin
Boulevard.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit a copy
of this resolution to Matt Stevens,
Vice President, The Painters Loft
Condominiums Owners’ Association,
Inc.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 17, 2012.
Effective September 20, 2012.

September 26, 2012
Res. No. 1339-12.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit at 2814 Detroit
Avenue and repealing Resolution No.
932-12, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to 2814 Detroit Avenue, by Resolution No. 932-12 adopted by the Council
on July 11, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D2,
D2X, D3, D3A and D6 to King David
Enterprises LLC, DBA Union Station
Video Café & Patio, 2814 Detroit
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 4652361, be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 932-12, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 17, 2012.
Effective September 20, 2012.

Ord. No. 1063-12.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance designating the Globe Machine and Stamping
Company as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Globe
Machine and Stamping Company as a
landmark; and
Whereas, the owners of the Globe
Machine and Stamping Company
have been properly notified and has
consented in writing to the proposed
designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Globe
Machine and Stamping Company as a
landmark and has set forth certain
findings of fact constituting the basis
for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health, and
safety in that the immediate protection of the historic landmark is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest
or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Globe Machine
and
Stamping
Company,
whose

The City Record
street addresses in the City of Cleveland are 1228-1250 West 76th Street,
Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Numbers are 002-03-004
and 002-03-019, and is also known as
the following described property:

15
March 22, 1979 and recorded in Volume 15016, Page 381 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence South 0 deg. 01' 46" East
along the westerly line of said West
76th Street, 243.19 feet to the northerly
pilaster face of the two-story Brick
Building located at No. 1250, and the
principal place of beginning of the
premises to be described;

Parcel No. 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublots Nos.
94 to 98, both inclusive, 162 to 164, both
inclusive, part of Sublots Nos. 99 and
161 and a 15 foot alley, now vacated
by City of Cleveland Ordinance No.
2133-47 in W. J. Gordon’s Allotment of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lots 29 and 30, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 17 of Maps, Page 9
of Cuyahoga County Records, part of
West 78th Street, 40 feet in width now
vacated by City of Cleveland Ordinance No. 2134 and part of Sublot No. 2
in Lamb and Hooker’s Allotment of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lots. Nos. 29 and 30, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps,
Page 27 of Cuyahoga County Records,
together forming a parcel of land,
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Westerly line of
West 76th Street, 50 feet in width at
its intersection with the Southeasterly line of the Consolidated Rail Corporation Right of Way, 100 feet in width;
thence South 0 deg. 01' 46" East along
the Westerly line of said West 76th
Street, 243.19 feet to a point; thence
Westerly along the Northerly line of
land so conveyed to Thomas Timura
and Mary Timura by Deed dated
December 30, 1982 and recorded in
Volume 15696, Page 305 of Cuyahoga
County Records and along the
Northerly pilaster face of the twostory brick building located at No.
1250, 218.61 feet to a point; thence continuing Westerly along the Northerly
line of land so conveyed to Thomas
and Mary Ellen Timura, 9.88 feet to a
Westerly line of land conveyed to
Mau - Sherwood Supply Company Inc.
by Deed dated March 27, 1979 and
recorded in Volume 15016, Page 381 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
South 89 deg. 48' 40" West, 130.00 feet
to a point; thence North 0 deg. 11'20"
West, 65.77 feet to the Southeasterly
line of the aforementioned Consolidated Rail Corporation right of way,
400.66 feet to the place of beginning,
be the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
P.P.N. 002-03-004

Course No. 7:
Thence North 89 deg. 46' 11" East
along the northerly pilaster face of
said two-story Brick Building, 218.61
feet to the place of beginning, containing 25,394 square feet of land
(0.5830 acres) according to a survey
by Garrett and Associates, Inc., Registered Engineers and Surveyors,
made in November, 1982, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P.P.N. 002-03-019

Parcel No. 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublots
Nos. 100 and 160, part of Sublots Nos.
99, 101, 102, 159, and 161 in W. J. Gordon’s Allotment of a part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 29 and
30, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 17 of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Records, part of West
78th Street, 40 feet in width, now
vacated by City of Cleveland Ordinance No. 2134-47, together forming a
parcel of land bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning in the westerly line of
West 76th Street; 50 feet in width, at
its intersection with the southeasterly line of the Consolidated Rail Corporation Right of Way, 100 feet in width,
being also the northeasterly corner of
land conveyed to Mau - Sherwood Supply Company, Inc. by deed dated

Description approved by Greg
Esber, Section Chief Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section Division
of Engineering & Construction which
in its entirety is a property having
special character or special historical
or aesthetic value as part of the development, heritage, or cultural characteristics of the City, State, or the United States, is designated a landmark
under Chapter 161 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 17, 2012.
Effective September 17, 2012.

1517

Course No. 1:
Thence South 0 deg. 1' 46" East
along the westerly line of said West
76th Street, 120.05 feet to its intersection with a line drawn parallel with
and distant 0.17 feet southerly by rectangular measurement from the
southerly face of a one-story Brick
Building;
Course No. 2:
Thence South 89 deg. 44' 02" West
along said parallel line, 65.20 feet;
Course No. 3:
Thence North 0 deg. 11' 20" West,
12.37 feet;
Course No. 4:
Thence South 89 deg. 48' 40" West
at right angles to last described
course, 162.95 feet to a point in the
westerly line of land conveyed as
aforesaid to Mau - Sherwood Supply
Company, Inc.;
Course No. 5:
Thence North 0 deg. 11' 20" West
along the westerly line of land so conveyed to Mau - Sherwood Supply Company, Inc., 107.61 feet to a corner
thereof;
Course No. 6:
Thence North 89 deg. 48' 40" East,
9.88 feet to the northwest corner of the
aforementioned
two-story
Brick
Building;

16
Ord. No. 1241-12.
By Council Members J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of constructing the new
Third District Police Station and
related site work; and authorizing the
Director of Capital Projects to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into
agreement with Richard L. Bowen &
Associates, Inc.; authorizing the
Director of Community Development
to transfer property described as 45014801 Chester Avenue to the control,
possession, and use of the Department of Public Safety, for the new
Third District Police Station; authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire various rights
and interests in real property needed
to implement the improvement; authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to enter into one or more contracts for
professional services necessary to
perform various environmental remediation activities and other services
necessary for the improvement; and
authorizing the Director of Capital
Projects to apply for and accept gifts
or grants from any public or private
entity for this purpose.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 91212, passed July 11, 2012, the City
entered into an agreement with Midtown Cleveland, Inc. (“Midtown”) to
redevelop the former Ward Bakery
site (“the Property”); and
Whereas, after a competitive proposal process, Midtown selected and
entered into a contract with Richard
L. Bowen & Associates, Inc. to provide
the architectural and engineering
design services necessary to redevelop the Property; and
Whereas, the City has now determined to take over the redevelopment
of the property, and Midtown has
offered, and the City desires to accept
an assignment from Midtown Cleveland, Inc. of the contract with Richard
L. Bowen & Associates, Inc. for the
professional architectural and engineering design services necessary for
the redevelopment project; and
Whereas, the Department of Community Development desires to transfer certain property under its control
to the Department of Public Safety;
and
Whereas, Section 183.14 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, requires that such transfer be
preceded by an ordinance of Council
approving the transfer; and
Whereas, the property to be transferred is a component of the City of
Cleveland’s land reutilization program and, as such, can be retained by
the City for devotion to public use
under Section 5722.07 of the Revised
Code upon the approval of the legislative authorities of those taxing districts entitled to share in the proceeds
from the sale thereof; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to

The City Record
make the public improvement of
constructing the new Third District
Police Station, and grading and
paving, constructing sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbing, curb ramps,
utility boxes, casting adjustments,
appurtenances, streetscaping, landscaping, installing water and sewer
mains and connections, installing
electrical service and connections,
streetlighting, and other related
infrastructure improvements in conjunction with constructing the new
Third District Police Station (the
“Improvement”), for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety,
by one or more contracts duly let to
the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a
gross price for the improvement.
Section 2. That, provided that this
Council authorizes and the City sells
future subordinated lien income tax
bonds that include the Improvement
authorized in this ordinance, the
Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into one or more contracts for the making of the public
improvement with the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for a gross price for the
Improvement, provided, however,
that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any combination, of the trades or components
may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price. On request of
the director, the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices,
including profit and overhead, for all
items constituting units of the
improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That, provided that this
Council authorizes and the City sells
future subordinated lien income tax
bonds that include the improvement
authorized in this ordinance, the
Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept an assignment from
Midtown Cleveland, Inc. of its contract with Richard L. Bowen & Associates, Inc. to provide the professional
architectural and engineering design
services necessary for the Improvement in the approximate amount of
$1,063,797.
Section 5. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
all documents and do all things necessary and appropriate to effect the
acceptance of the assignment.
Section 6. That the assignment
agreement shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 7. That, under Section 183.14
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and upon approval of
the Board of Education of the Cleveland Metropolitan School District and
the County Council of Cuyahoga
County, Ohio, the Director of Community Development is authorized to
transfer the property located at 45014801 Chester Avenue and known as
Permanent Parcel No. 104-31-017 to the
control, possession, and use of the
Department of Public Safety for the
new Third District Police Station.
Section 8. That on consummation of
the transfer referenced above, the
directors participating in the transac-

1518

September 26, 2012
tion shall initial and date a copy of
this ordinance and deliver the copy to
the custody of the Division of Property Management, Department of Public Works.
Section 9. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized to purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire
easements, fee interest, licenses, permits and other rights or interests in
real property necessary for the
Improvement.
Section 10. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire rights or interests in real property and to employ
and pay all fees for title companies,
surveys, escrows, appraisers, and
other consultants and all other costs
necessary for the acquisition or use of
the rights or interests in the property
acquired under this section of this
ordinance.
Section 11. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to perform environmental services, and any
other professional services needed to
implement the Improvement. Activities shall include, but not be limited
to, environmental assessments, surveys, various fees relating to securing a No Further Action Letter, and
other activities and services necessary to bring the site to the appropriate standard and secure a No Further
Action Letter.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Capital Projects from
a list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Capital Projects for the purpose of compiling a
list. The compensation to be paid for
the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Capital Projects, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 12. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept gifts or grants from any
public or private entity for the purposes that include the Improvement.
The Director is further authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
accepted under this ordinance, and
upon acceptance of the funds by the
director, they shall be appropriated
for the purposes set forth in this ordinance.
Section 13. That the cost of the contract or contracts, other expenditures,
and real property and easement
acquisitions authorized in this ordinance shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20
SF 381, 20 SF 391, 20 SF 503, 20 SF 509,
20 SF 517, 20 SF 524, 20 SF 532, 20 SF
539, 20 SF 545, from the fund or funds
to which are credited the proceeds of
the sale of future subordinated lien
income tax bonds, provided this Coun-

September 26, 2012
cil authorizes and the City sells the
bonds, from the fund or funds
approved by the Director of Finance,
and from any grants accepted under
this ordinance.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 17, 2012.
Effective September 17, 2012.

Ord. No. 1330-12.
By Council Members Polensek,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into one or more contracts with Manitowoc Company, Inc.,
or its designee, to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance machinery and equipment
acquisition for 1333 E. 179th Street
and the construction of an office
building which will be adjacent to its
existing facility and will be located at
18301-15 St. Clair, and other associated
costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a forgivable loan
agreement with Manitowoc Company, Inc., or its designee, in an
amount of $250,000, to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance machinery and
equipment acquisition at 1333 E.
179th Street, and other associated
costs necessary to redevelop the
property.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into a forgivable loan agreement under the Vacant Property Initiative with Manitowoc Company,
Inc., or its designee, in an amount of
$180,000, to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the construction of an office building
which will be adjacent to their existing facility and will be located at
18301-15 St. Clair, and other associated
costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Section 3. That the term of the
loans, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 1330-12, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 4. That the costs of the contracts shall not exceed an aggregate
amount of $430,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 17 SF 008, Request No.
RQS 9501, RL 2012-143.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept such collateral as the director
determines is sufficient in order to

The City Record
secure repayment of the loan. Any
loan agreement, security instrument,
or other document shall be prepared
and approved by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept monies in repayment of the
loan and to deposit the monies in
Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 7. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
fees under federal regulations and
the fees are appropriated to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of
the loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from Fund
No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 8. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 9. The contract authorized
in this legislation will require the
recipient of financial assistance to
work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities
related to the City’s contracts, and
place special emphasis on the hard to
employ, including but not limited to
the disabled and persons who have
been convicted of or have pled guilty
to a criminal offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances relate to the duties for the
particular job sought.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 17, 2012.
Effective September 20, 2012.

Ord. No. 1331-12.
By Council Members Polensek,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Manitowoc
Company, Inc., or its designee, to provide for a ten-year, sixty percent tax
abatement for certain tangible real
property improvements located at
18301-15 St. Clair Avenue in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, by letter dated August 28,
2012, the City provided the Cleveland
Metropolitan
School
District
(“CMSD”) with a notice of proposed
tax exemptions required by Section
5709.83 of the Revised Code. That
notice was provided to the CMSD not
later than fourteen days prior to adoption of this ordinance; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council
designated an area, which is in the
City of Cleveland and described in
File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code; and

1519

17
Whereas, in August, 1995, the Director of Development of the State of
Ohio determined that the Zone contains the characteristics described in
division (A) of Section 5709.61 of the
Revised Code and certified the area
as an “Urban Jobs and Enterprise
Zone” under Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, Manitowoc Company,
Inc., or its designee (the “Enterprise”) has proposed to construct a
new office building on a site adjacent
to its facility to be located at 18301-15
St. Clair Avenue (PPNs 116-19-018, 11619-019, 116-19-020 and 116-19-021) in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that it would be at a
competitive disadvantage operating
at this location if taxes on certain real
property improvements, were not
abated; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, safety, property, and
welfare and that its enactment is a
necessary prerequisite to providing
immediate assistance to create and
preserve
job
opportunities
and
advance and promote commercial and
economic development in the City of
Cleveland, and the assistance is
immediately necessary or jobs will be
lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an Enterprise Zone Agreement with the Enterprise to provide
for a ten-year, sixty percent (60%)
tax abatement on certain real property improvements; the abatement shall
be subject to annual review of the
Tax Incentive Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the tax
abatement shall be in accordance
with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 1331-12-A. These
terms shall not be amended, nor shall
the tax abatement be assignable or
transferable to any entity, without
the prior legislative authorization by
Cleveland City Council. The agreement with the Cleveland Municipal
School District for this tax abatement
shall be included in the legislative
file when executed.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
under Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code and the funds are appropriated
for the purposes listed in Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from Fund
No. 17 SF 305.
Section 5. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That any contract authorized by this legislation must require

18
the recipient of financial assistance
to work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities
related to the City’s contracts. The
identification process shall place special emphasis on the hard to employ,
including people who are disabled
and people who have been convicted
of or who have pled guilty to a criminal offense which is unrelated to the
duties of the job opportunity.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 17, 2012.
Effective September 20, 2012.

Ord. No. 1333-12.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with the Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization for the SOMO Leadership Lab
Project through the use of Ward 15
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization for the SOMO Leadership
Lab Project for the public purpose
of providing leadership educational
classes in community collaboration
for Cleveland residents through the
use of Ward 15 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $7,500 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 17, 2012.
Effective September 20, 2012.

The City Record
REPRINT
Ord. No. 1240-12.
By
Council
Members
Kelley,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 by enacting new
Section 535.051 relating to testing and
monitoring programs and water bill
credits.
Whereas, the Department of Public
Utilities periodically conducts programs for testing and monitoring of
residential and commercial water
quality, distribution operations, and
other testing and monitoring services
determined to be necessary by the
Director of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, in order to conduct these
testing and monitoring programs, the
Department of Public Utilities needs
assistance from the customers; and
Whereas, those customers who
wish to participate and are accepted
into these programs by the Director of
Public Utilities will perform tasks
such as collecting water samples
delivered to their homes or businesses
and performing other related tasks
which are out of the ordinary for a
consumer, for the benefit of the
Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, in order to encourage participation in these programs, the
Department of Public Utilities is
offering incentives in the form of
water bill credits to eligible participants who complete the services
under the programs; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 535.051 to read as follows:
Section 535.051 Testing and Monitoring Programs; Water Bill Credits
(a) The Director of Public Utilities
may conduct programs for testing
and monitoring of water distributed
to residential and commercial premises to be performed by the customers.
These programs shall relate to various aspects of the Division of Water
and may include distribution operations, water quality, and other testing
and monitoring determined to be necessary by the Director of Public Utilities.
(b) The Director of Public Utilities
is authorized to provide water bill
credits, to be established by the Board
of Control, to eligible water customers after successfully completing
monitoring and testing performed
under a program offered under division (a) of this section. The total
amount of all water bill credits autho-

1520

September 26, 2012
rized by this division shall not exceed
$10,000 per year.
(c) The Director of Public Utilities
shall establish guidelines for program eligibility and for administering the programs under this section.
The Director shall have the final
approval of all applications.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 10, 2012.
Effective September 11, 2012.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, September 24, 2012
9:00 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell,
Keane, Kelley, Polensek, Reed.
1:30 p.m.
City
Planning
Committee
&
Finance Committee: Present in Planning: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Keane,
Zone. Authorized Absence: Dow. Present in Finance: Kelley, Chair;
Sweeney, Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt,
Westbrook,
Zone.
Authorized
Absence: Brancatelli.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cleveland, Keane, Miller,
Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
Authorized Absence: Brancatelli. Pro
tempore: J. Johnson.
Tuesday, September 25, 2012
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman,
Cummins,
J.
Johnson,
Miller, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
Wednesday, September 26, 2012
10:00 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation Committee:
Present:
Keane,
Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell. Authorized Absence: K. Johnson.

September 26, 2012

The City Record

19

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Capital Projects — public important contract — professional services — right-of-way
with private utility companies & RTA — Resurfacing East 9th St. (O 1363-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Juvenile Court’s Community Diversion Program — Ancillary Fund Grant — Cuy. Co. —
Community Relations — Grant (O 1264-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Law Department — City of Bratenahl, Ohio — To provide Prosecution Services in the Cleveland
Municipal Court — month to month basis (O 1366-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Amend Title & Sect(s) 2 and 3 of Ord. No. 1607-11 — Common Area Maintenance
Agreement No. 48828 (CAM) (O 1253-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Amend Title Sect(s) 2 and 8 of Ord. No. 1608-11 — Downtown Lakefront
Management Special Revenue Fund — establish — Cooperative Agreement (O 1252-12) . . . .
Somo Leadership Lab Project — Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
(Ward 15 NEF) (O 1333-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1508
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1509
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1520

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Federal Services Station Building renovation and upgrade — approve subcontractors —
Contract #PI2012*002 per BOC Res. 465-11, 127-12, 294-12, 395-12 — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 476-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1513

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Hardware, software technical support and maintenance for Ventyx Customer Suite, Service
Suite and Asset Suite — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Ventyx Inc. — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 475-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1512
SCADA backup and licenses for control center at East Side Service Center — per Ord.
1628-10 to Efacec ACS, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 474-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1512

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 57th Street, 3810 (Ward 12) — PPN 132-10-178 — Landis Warner (BOC Res. 479-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1513
Firsby Avenue, 12600 (Ward 17) — PPN 019-21-097 — Kernals Property Group, LLC
(BOC Res. 481-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1514
Holly Hill Drive, 16701 (Ward 1) — PPN 141-17-051 — Denise Knight (BOC Res. 480-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1514

Board of Control — Finance Department
Review and assessment of Fire Division training records — per Ord. 263-12 to Resources
Connection, LLC, dba Resource Global Professionals — Division of Internal Audit
(BOC Res. 473-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1512

Board of Control — Internal Audit Division
Review and assessment of Fire Division training records — per Ord. 263-12 to Resources
Connection, LLC, dba Resource Global Professionals — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 473-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1512

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 57th Street, 3810 (Ward 12) — PPN 132-10-178 — Landis Warner (BOC Res. 479-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1513
Firsby Avenue, 12600 (Ward 17) — PPN 019-21-097 — Kernals Property Group, LLC
(BOC Res. 481-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1514
Holly Hill Drive, 16701 (Ward 1) — PPN 141-17-051 — Denise Knight (BOC Res. 480-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1514

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Cab and chassis with dump bodies and equipment — per Ord. 1602-10, 943-11 to Hans’ Truck
and Trailer Repair, Inc., dba Hans’ Freightliner of Cleveland — Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 477-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1513

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Federal Services Station Building renovation and upgrade — approve subcontractors —
Contract #PI2012* 002 per BOC Res. 465-11, 127-12, 294-12, 395-12 —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 476-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1513

1521

The City Record

20

September 26, 2012

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Hardware, software technical support and maintenance for Ventyx Customer Suite, Service
Suite and Asset Suite — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Ventyx Inc. — Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 475-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1512
Review and assessment of Fire Division training records — per Ord. 263-12 to Resources
Connection, LLC, dba Resource Global Professionals — Division of Internal
Audit, Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 473-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1512
SCADA backup and licenses for control center at East Side Service Center — per Ord.
1628-10 to Efacec ACS, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 474-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1512

Board of Control — Public Auditorium
HVAC improvements — per Ord. 684-08 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public Works
(BOC Res. 478-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1513

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Federal Services Station Building renovation and upgrade — approve subcontractors —
Contract #PI2012*002 per BOC Res. 465-11, 127-12, 294-12, 395-12 —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 476-12). . . . . . . . . . . . 1513

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Hardware, software technical support and maintenance for Ventyx Customer Suite, Service
Suite and Asset Suite — per C.O. Sec. 181.102 to Ventyx Inc. — Division of Cleveland
Public Power (BOC Res. 475-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1512
SCADA backup and licenses for control center at East Side Service Center — per Ord.
1628-10 to Efacec ACS, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 474-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1512

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Cab and chassis with dump bodies and equipment — per Ord. 1602-10, 943-11 to Hans’ Truck
and Trailer Repair, Inc., dba Hans’ Freightliner of Cleveland — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 477-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1513
HVAC improvements at Public Auditorium — per Ord. 684-08 — all bids rejected
(BOC Res. 478-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1513

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Cab and chassis with dump bodies and equipment — per Ord. 1602-10, 943-11 to Hans’ Truck
and Trailer Repair, Inc., dba Hans’ Freightliner of Cleveland — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 477-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1513

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Clinton Avenue, 3300, (Ward 3) — Jason Bristol, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 9/24/12 (Cal. 12-119) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 133rd Street, 3524, (Ward 4) — Ernst Young, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
9/24/12 (Cal. 12-131) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 85th Street, 1337, (Ward 7) — Cyril Weathers — appeal heard on 9/24/12 (Cal. 12-152) . . . . . . .
East 89th Street, 1762, (Ward 7) — Tina Humphrey, owner — appeal heard on 9/24/12
(Cal. 12-62) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hampden Avenue, 10926, (Ward 8) — Lenora Kelton, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
9/24/12 (Cal. 12-103) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ivanhoe Road, 1130, (Ward 11) — The 5400 Corporation LLC, owner, and John
Hirko, prospective tenant — appeal dismissed 9/24/12 (Cal. 11-125) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Juniper Road, 11211, (Ward 9) — Case Western Reserve University, owner — appeal heard on
9/24/12 (Cal. 12-155) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Madison Avenue, 11614, (Ward 16) — CPT Investments, LLC, owner and Jeremiah Ward, tenant —
appeal heard on 9/24/12 (Cal. 12-117) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Park Avenue, 6607, (Ward 12) — Bernadine Gusley, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
9/24/12 (Cal. 12-54). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Royal Road, 903, (Ward 11) — Maurice Daugherty, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 9/24/12 (Cal. 12-136) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Storer Avenue, 5902, (Ward 15) — MSM Family Investment, owner — appeal to be heard
on 10/8/12 (Cal. 12-141) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 105th Street, 3180, (Ward 17) — VR Property Group, LLC, owner — appeal heard
on 9/24/12 (Cal. 12-104) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 58th Street, 3342, (Ward 15) — Darren Morgan — appeal heard on 9/24/12 (Cal. 12-149) . . . . . .
West 81st Street, 2027, (Ward 15) — Rafael Morales, owner — appeal heard on 9/24/12
(Cal. 12-158) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1522

. . . . . . . . . . . 1515
. . . . . . . . . . . 1515
. . . . . . . . . . . 1515
. . . . . . . . . . . 1515
. . . . . . . . . . . 1515
. . . . . . . . . . . 1515
. . . . . . . . . . . 1515
. . . . . . . . . . . 1515
. . . . . . . . . . . 1515
. . . . . . . . . . . 1515
. . . . . . . . . . . 1514
. . . . . . . . . . . 1515
. . . . . . . . . . . 1515
. . . . . . . . . . . 1515

September 26, 2012

The City Record

21

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 116th Street, 1461, (Ward 9) — Timothy Payne, owner — appeal to be heard on 10/8/12
(Cal. 12-148) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1514
West 159th Street, 3689, (Ward 19) — Lucilleville, LLC and Dean Hinterberger, owner —
appeal to be heard on 10/8/12 (Cal. 12-168) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1515
West 32nd Street, 1749, (Ward 3) — Kerry Noonan, owner — appeal to be heard on 10/8/12
(Cal. 12-166) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1514

Capital Projects
Accept property for Quigley & Steelyard Common, easement for install signage (O 1362-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Public important contract — professional services — right-of-way —
agreement with private utility companies & RTA — Resurfacing East 9th
St. (O 1363-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1508
Public improvement contract — Construct Third District Police Station (O 1241-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1518

Case Western Reserve University
Regional Drug Court Project — grant — Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration — Muni Court (O 1247-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Smart Probation Grant — Bureau of Justice Assistance — grant — Muni Court (O 1324-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511

City of Bratenahl
Law Department — agreement — To provide prosecution services in the Cleveland Municipal
Court — month to month basis (O 1366-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1509

City of Cleveland Bids
Cedar Avenue reconstruction (East 89th Street to Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive) — Office
of Capital Projects — Division of Engineering and Construction — per Ord. 592-11 —
bid due October 18, 2012 (advertised 9/19/2012 and 9/26/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516
LED street light luminaires for Pilot Project, Phase III — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 558-11, 1215-11 — bid due October
11, 2012 (advertised 9/19/2012 and 9/26/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1515
West Sixth Street streetscape (West Lakeside Avenue to W. St. Clair Avenue and Professor
Street intersection) — Office of Capital Projects — Division of Engineering and
Construction — per Ord. 1570-11 — bid due October 17, 2012 (advertised 9/19/2012 and
9/26/2012 and 10/3/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516

City Planning Commission
Globe Machine and Stamping Company — West 76th St., 1228-1250 — PPN 002-03-004/019 —
designate as landmark (Ward 15) (O 1063-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517

Cleveland Municipal Court
Adult Drug Court Expansion Grant- Bureau of Justice Assistance — grant (O 1250-12) . . . . . . . . .
Law Department — agreement — City of Bratenahl, Ohio — To provide prosecution services —
month to month basis (O 1366-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Regional Drug Court Project — grant — Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration (O 1247-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Smart Probation Grant — Bureau of Justice Assistance — grant (O 1324-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Veterans Treatment Docket Program — grant — Bureau of Justice Assistance (O 1248-12) . . . . .
Veterans Treatment Docket Program — grant — Office of Criminal Justice Services (O 1249-12)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1509
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1511
1511
1511
1511

Codified Ordinances
Utilities Department — Enact New Section 535.051 — Residential testing and
monitoring programs and water bill credits (O 1240-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1505-1520

Communications
City Resident Utilization Report — August 2012 Bi-Monthly Report — Equal Opportunity Office
(F 1396-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Compliance Report — August 2012 Bi-Monthly Report — Equal Opportunity Office (F 1395-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Community Development Department
Somo Leadership Lab Project — agreement — Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization (Ward 15 NEF) (O 1333-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1520

1523

The City Record

22

September 26, 2012

Condolences
Gordon, Chester (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Masterson, Martin (R 1368-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Stankus, Arnold (R 1369-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Congratulations
Centa, William J. (R 1371-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debose, Rev. Emanuel D. (R 1385-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fabulous Food Show (R 1384-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glenville New Life Community Church, P.C.U.S.A. (50th Anniversary) (R 1389-12)
Hagan, Timothy F. (R 1370-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hart, Lisa (R 1381-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hewett, Michael ,Commissioner Division of Printing & Reproduction (R 1379-12) .
Hopkins, Thomas E. (R 1376-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Huber, Erin D. (R 1377-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jackson, Clementine L. (R 1386-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
James, Larry H. (R 1374-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Keenan, Jr., Dr. Daniel J. (R 1372-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Loomis, Scott (R 1380-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Manek, Ronald (R 1383-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marcus, Richard (R 1382-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Niles, Sheila M. (R 1378-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Palko, George J. (R 1373-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Peterson, Dr. Ruth D. (R 1375-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Francis School (125th Anniversary) (R 1388-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tignar, Lellar (R 1387-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506

Contracts
Capital Projects — public important — professional services — right-of-way agreement
with private utility companies & RTA — Resurfacing East 9th St. (O 1363-12) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capital Projects — public improvement — Construct Third District Police Station (O 1241-12) . .
Economic Development — Manitowoc Company, Inc . (VPI) (Ward 11) (O 1330-12) . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise the first option to renew Contract No. MA 1505 RC 2010-79 with H. Leff Electric —
various divisions (O 1336-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Finance Department — ready mix concrete, materials, and supplies — various divisions
(O 1245-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Amend Title & Sect(s) 2 and 3 of Ord. No. 1607-11 — Common Area Maintenance
Agreement No. 48828 (CAM) (O 1253-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Amend Title Sect(s) 2 and 8 of Ord. No. 1608-11 — Downtown Lakefront
Management Special Revenue Fund — establish — Cooperative Agreement (O 1252-12) . . .
Port Control — public improvement — Constructing a transient Marina at the E. 9th St. Pier
(Ward 03) (O 744-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safety Department — Various types of Firefighting Equipment (O 1255-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1508
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1518
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1512
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511

Cuyahoga County
Juvenile Court’s Community Diversion Program — Ancillary Fund Grant — Cuy. Co. —
Community Relations — grant (O 1264-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Smart Probation Grant — Bureau of Justice Assistance — grant — Muni Court (O 1324-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511

Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
Somo Leadership Lab Project — agreement — Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization (Ward 15 NEF) (O 1333-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1520

Easements
Capital Projects — Accept property for Quigley & Steelyard Common — install signage
(O 1362-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Economic Development Department
Contract — Manitowoc Company, Inc . (VPI) (Ward 11) (O 1330-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519
Enterprise Zone Agreement — Manitowoc Company, Inc. — St. Clair Ave., 18301-15 (Ward 11)
(O 1331-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Economic Development — Manitowoc Company, Inc. — St. Clair Ave., 18301-15 (Ward 11)
(O 1331-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519

1524

September 26, 2012

The City Record

23

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Clean Air Act (R 1365-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1509

Finance Department
Adult Drug Court Expansion Grant- Bureau of Justice Assistance — grant — Muni Court
(O 1250-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Contracts — ready mix concrete, materials, and supplies — various divisions (O 1245-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Exercise The First Option to renew Contract No. MA 1505 RC 2010-79 with H. Leff Electric —
various divisions (O 1336-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1512
Regional Drug Court Project — grant — Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration — Muni Court (O 1247-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Smart Probation Grant — Bureau of Justice Assistance — grant — Muni Court (O 1324-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Veterans Treatment Docket Program — grant — Bureau of Justice Assistance — Muni
Court (O 1248-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Veterans Treatment Docket Program — grant — Office of Criminal Justice Services — Muni
Court (O 1249-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511

Fire Division
Safety Department — contracts — Various types of Firefighting Equipment (O 1255-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511

Grants
Adult Drug Court Expansion Grant- Bureau of Justice Assistance — Muni Court (O 1250-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Juvenile Court’s Community Diversion Program — Ancillary Fund Grant — Cuy. Co. —
Community Relations (O 1264-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Regional Drug Court Project — Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration —
Muni Court (O 1247-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Smart Probation Grant — Bureau of Justice Assistance — Muni Court (O 1324-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Veterans Treatment Docket Program — Bureau of Justice Assistance — Muni Court (O 1248-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Veterans Treatment Docket Program — Office of Criminal Justice Services — Muni Court
(O 1249-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511

Health Department
Clean Air Act (R 1365-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1509

Landmark Commission
Globe Machine and Stamping Company — West 76th St., 1228-1250 — PPN 002-03-004/019 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 1063-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517

Law Department
Agreement — City of Bratenahl, Ohio — To provide prosecution services in the Cleveland
Municipal Court — month to month basis (O 1366-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1509

Lease Agreement
Port Control — With Geis Construction Inc., The Burke Development District (O 1070-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510

Leases
Cleveland Brown’s — For Docks 28b, 30 and 32 (O 1082-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Safety Department — Property in the Allerton Apartments for an Auxiliary Police Station
(O 1060-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510

Liquor Permits
Detroit Ave., 2814 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 932-12
(Ward 03) (R 1339-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517
East 55th St., 2559 — objection to issuance (Ward 05) (R 1334-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516
Harvard Ave., 14302 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 01) (R 1364-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510

Loans
Economic Development — contract — Manitowoc Company, Inc . (VPI) (Ward 11) (O 1330-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519

1525

The City Record

24

September 26, 2012

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Somo Leadership Lab Project — agreement — Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization (Ward 15 NEF) (O 1333-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1520

Office of Equal Opportunity
City Resident Utilization Report — August 2012 Bi-Monthly Report (F 1396-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Compliance Report — August 2012 Bi-Monthly Report (F 1395-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Police Division
Capital Projects — public improvement contract — Construct Third District Police Station
(O 1241-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1518

Port Control Department
Amend Title & Sect(s) 2 and 3 of Ord. No. 1607-11 — Common Area Maintenance Agreement No.
48828 (CAM) (O 1253-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Amend Title Sect(s) 2 and 8 of Ord. No. 1608-11 — Downtown Lakefront Management Special
Revenue Fund — establish — Cooperative Agreement (O 1252-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Cleveland Brown’s lease for Docks 28b, 30 and 32 (O 1082-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Option to lease agreement with Geis Construction Inc., The Burke Development
District (O 1070-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510
Public improvement contracts — Constructing a Transient Marina at the E. 9th St. Pier
(Ward 03) (O 744-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510

Professional Services
Port Control — Amend Title & Sect(s) 2 and 3 of Ord. No. 1607-11 — Common Area Maintenance
Agreement No. 48828 (CAM) (O 1253-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511
Port Control — Option to lease agreement with Geis Construction Inc., The Burke Development
District (O 1070-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510
Port Control — public improvement contracts — Constructing a Transient Marina at the E.
9th St. Pier (Ward 03) (O 744-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510

Public Improvements
Capital Projects — contract — professional services — right— of—way agreement with private
utility companies & RTA — Resurfacing East 9th St. (O 1363-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1508
Capital Projects — contract — Construct Third District Police Station (O 1241-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1518
Port Control -contracts — Constructing a Transient Marina at the e. 9th St. Pier (Ward
03) (O 744-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510

Public Works
Port Control — Amend Title & Sect(s) 2 and 3 of Ord. No. 1607-11 — Common Area Maintenance
Agreement No. 48828 (CAM) (O 1253-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511

Purchases And Supplies Division
Capital Projects — Accept property for Quigley & Steelyard Common, easement for install
signage (O 1362-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Recognition
Chamoun, CEO, Fady (R 1391-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Cody, Ph.D., George (R 1390-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Regional Transit Authority
Capital Projects — Public important contract — professional services — right-of-way
agreement with private utility companies — Resurfacing East 9th St. (O 1363-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1508

Reports
City Resident Utilization Report — August 2012 Bi-Monthly Report — Equal Opportunity Office
(F 1396-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Compliance Report — August 2012 Bi-Monthly Report — Equal Opportunity Office (F 1395-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

1526

September 26, 2012

The City Record

25

Resolution of Support
Clean Air Act (R 1365-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1509
Painters Loft Condominiums Owners’ Association, Inc. — State Historic Tax Credits —
Franklin Blvd. (Ward 15) (R 1337-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516

Right-Of-Way
Capital Projects — Public important contract — professional services —
agreement with private utility companies & RTA — Resurfacing East 9th
St. (O 1363-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1508

Safety Department
Capital Projects — public improvement contract — Construct Third District Police Station
(O 1241-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1518
City lease property in the Allerton Apartments for an Auxiliary Police Station (O 1060-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510
Contracts — Various types of Firefighting Equipment (O 1255-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511

Special Revenue Funds
Port Control — Amend Title Sect(s) 2 and 8 of Ord. No. 1608-11 — Downtown Lakefront
Management Special Revenue Fund — establish — Cooperative Agreement (O 1252-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1511

Tax Credits
Painters Loft Condominiums Owners’ Association, Inc. — State Historic Tax Credits —
Franklin Blvd. (Ward 15) (R 1337-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516

Utilities Department
Enact New Section 535.051 — Residential testing and monitoring programs and water bill
credits (O 1240-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1505-1520

Ward 01
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Harvard Ave., 14302 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 1364-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510

Ward 02
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cody, Ph.D., George — Recognition (R 1390-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chamoun, Ceo, Fady — Recognition (R 1391-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Honorable Boutros Harb, Member, Lebanese Parliament — Welcome (R 1394-12)

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1506
1506
1506
1506

Ward 03
Capital Projects — Accept property for Quigley & Steelyard Common, easement for install
signage (O 1362-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capital Projects — public important contract — professional services — right-of-way
agreement with private utility companies & RTA — Resurfacing East 9th St.
(O 1363-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Centa, William J. — Congratulations (R 1371-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clean Air Act (R 1365-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Ave., 2814 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 932-12 —
liquor permit (R 1339-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hagan, Timothy F. — Congratulations (R 1370-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hopkins, Thomas E. — Congratulations (R 1376-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Huber, Erin D. — Congratulations (R 1377-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
James, Larry H. — Congratulations (R 1374-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Keenan, Jr., Dr. Daniel J. — Congratulations (R 1372-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Niles, Sheila M. — Congratulations (R 1378-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Palko, George J. — Congratulations (R 1373-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Peterson, Dr. Ruth D. — Congratulations (R 1375-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Public improvement contracts — Constructing a Transient Marina at the E.
9th St. Pier (O 744-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safety Department — City lease property in the Allerton Apartments for an Auxiliary Police
Station (O 1060-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1527

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1508
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1509
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1517
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1510

The City Record

26

September 26, 2012

Ward 04
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
James, Brittani — Commendation (R 1392-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Rock, Danae — Commendation (R 1393-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 05
East 55th St., 2559 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1334-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 06
Debose, Rev. Emanuel D. — Congratulations (R 1385-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 07
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
St. Francis School (125th Anniversary) — Congratulations (R 1388-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Tignar, Lellar — Congratulations (R 1387-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 08
Glenville New Life Community Church, P.C.U.S.A. (50th Anniversary)
— Congratulations (R 1389-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 09
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Jackson, Clementine L. — Congratulations (R 1386-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 10
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 11
Economic Development — contract — Manitowoc Company, Inc . (VPI) (O 1330-12) .
Economic Development — Enterprise Zone Agreement — Manitowoc Company, Inc.
Ave., 18301-15 (O 1331-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.....
— St.
.....
.....

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519
Clair
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1519
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 12
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 13
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 14
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 15
Globe Machine and Stamping Company — West 76th St., 1228-1250 — PPN 002-03-004/019 —
designate as landmark — City Planning Commission (O 1063-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Painters Loft Condominiums Owners’ Association, Inc. — State Historic Tax Credits —
Franklin Blvd. (Ward 15) (R 1337-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Somo Leadership Lab Project — agreement — Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization (Ward 15 NEF) (O 1333-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1517
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1516
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1520

Ward 16
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Ward 17
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

1528

September 26, 2012

The City Record

27

Ward 18
Centa, William J. — Congratulations (R 1371-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fabulous Food Show — Congratulations (R 1384-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hagan, Timothy F. — Congratulations (R 1370-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hart, Lisa — Congratulations (R 1381-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hewett, Michael, Commissioner Division Of Printing & Reproduction — Congratulations
(R 1379-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hopkins, Thomas E. — Congratulations (R 1376-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Huber, Erin D. — Congratulations (R 1377-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
James, Larry H. — Congratulations (R 1374-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Keenan, Jr., Dr. Daniel J. — Congratulations (R 1372-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Loomis, Scott — Congratulations (R 1380-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Manek, Ronald — Congratulations (R 1383-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marcus, Richard — Congratulations (R 1382-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Masterson, Martin — Condolence (R 1368-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Niles, Sheila M. — Congratulations (R 1378-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Palko, George J. — Congratulations (R 1373-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Peterson, Dr. Ruth D. — Congratulations (R 1375-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1506
1506
1506
1506
1506

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506
1506

Ward 19
Gordon, Chester — Condolence (R 1367-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506
Stankus, Arnold — Condolence (R 1369-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

Water Division
Utilities Department — Enact New Section 535.051 — Residential testing and
monitoring programs and water bill credits (O 1240-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1505-1520

Welcome
The Honorable Boutros Harb, Member, Lebanese Parliament (R 1394-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1506

1529

