The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Twenty-Fifth, Two Thousand and Twelve

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
12
12
14
14
15
18
18
18
18
18
19

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ..................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek.............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli.................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley.................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ...........................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone ....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ..................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady .........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Interim Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100

DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Interim Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Interim Director, Mural Building, 75
Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry, President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President
Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Interim Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry; Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Interim Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Chairman; Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney;
Councilman Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Interim Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan – Courtroom 13A
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2012

Vol. 99

No. 5120

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2012
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.

port the 2012 Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers
Act (MIPPA) Beneficiary Outreach
and Assistance Program. Received.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:

File No. 87-12.
From Michael J. Negray, Cleveland Municipal Court — Requesting
Judge Pinkey S. Carr be added to
the Directory of City Officials in the
City Record. Received.

Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

File No. 88-12.
Alex Margevicius — Interim Commissioner of Division of Water.
Received.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

File No. 89-12.
McGowan
—
Executive
Jenita
Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability. Received.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Committee:
Cimperman,
Services
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY

______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 23, 2012
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, the President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Conwell,
Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, Keane,
Kelley, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,
Pruitt, Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook
and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff, Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer, Chris Warren, Chief of
Regional
Development,
Maureen
Harper, Chief of Communications,
Andrea V.Taylor, Press Secretary,
Junita McGowan, Chief of Sustainability, Natoya J. Walker Minor,
Chief of Public Affairs, and Interim
Law Director Langhenry, Directors
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Wasik, Butler, Cox, Rush, Rybka, Southerington, Nichols, Griffin, Brown, Fumich
and Ambrose.

9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Westbrook.

Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Assistant Pastor Kyle Earley of Mt.
Sinai Baptist Church, 7510 Woodland
Avenue, located in Ward 5. Pledge
of Allegiance.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

MOTION

10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Dow.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

File No. 86-12.
From Director of Department of
Aging — Notification of acceptance
of a grant in the amount of $1,000.00
from the Western Reserve Area
Agency on Aging (WRAAA) to sup-

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.

OATH OF OFFICE

File No. 90-12.
David Reines — Executive Director of Workforce Investment Board.
Received.
File No. 91-12.
Thomas E. Vanover — Commissioner of Division of Code Enforcement, Department of Building and
Housing. Received.
PLAT
File No. 92-12.
Council
Member
Brancatelli
(Ward 12).
Request for Plat Review and
Approval @ Morgana Run Phase
One. Subdivision and Dedication
Plat, East 71st Street, East 72nd
Street,
Aetna
Road,
Proposed
Gerome Drive, Proposed Garland
Court.
Approved by Director of City Planning; Referred to Committees on
City Planning and Public Service.
FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 93-12.
Re: #8194664 — D1, D2, D3, D3A,
D6 Transfer of Ownership and Location Application — Sipp & Chatt,
Inc., 16800 Miles Road. (Ward 1).
Received.
File No. 94-12.
Re: #6568043 — D1, D2 Transfer
of Location Application — Orale,
Inc., 1834 West 25th Street. (Ward
3). Received.

COMMUNICATIONS

49

File No. 95-12.
Re: #1970617 — D1, D2, D3, D3A
Transfer of Ownership Application
— David’s Deli Eaton Center, Inc.,
d.b.a., David’s Grill, Unit M1 and
Patio, 1001 Lakeside Avenue. (Ward
3). Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 96-12.
Re: #6430433 — D1, D2, D3, D3A
Transfer of Location Application —
1909 W25, LLC, 1909 West 25th
Street. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 97-12.
Re: #01007780326 — C1, C2, D6,
Transfer of Ownership and Location
Application — Aldi, Inc, Ohio, d.b.a.,
#66,
7500
Euclid
Avenue.
Aldi,
(Ward 7). Received.
File No. 98-12.
Re: #6550485 — C1, C2 Transfer of
Ownership Application — 10813 R &
T, Inc., 10813 St. Clair Avenue.
(Ward 9). Received.
File No. 99-12.
Re: #6481710 — D5, D6 Transfer
of Ownership Application — Nu
Way, LLC, d.b.a., Winners Sports
Club & Grill, 770 East 185th Street.
(Ward 11). Received.
File No. 100-12.
Re: #7093275 — D1, D2, D3, D3A
Transfer of Ownership Application
— Professional Tavern Management
LLC, d.b.a., Coach’s Place, 1st floor
and
basement,
19003
St.
Clair
Avenue. (Ward 11). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 101-12—Helen Corley.
Res. No. 102-12—Betty N. Arnold.
Res. No. 103-12—Wylie Neal, Jr.
Res. No. 104-12—Thomas (Butch)
Horace Frierson.
Res. No. 105-12—Jovan Coleman.
Res. No. 106-12—Cylestine Floyd.
Res. No. 107-12—Frederick Martin
Mone, Sr.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 108-12—Michael Healey.
Res. No. 109-12—Donald T. Misheff.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 110-12—Judge Jean Murrell Capers.
Res. No. 111-12—Vietnamese Community of Greater Cleveland, Inc. /
“Year of the Dragon”.
Res. No. 112-12—Leonard Diasio.
WELCOME RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 113-12—Derrick Fulton.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 70-12.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Dealer Tire, LLC, to

encroach into the public right-of-way
of Perkins Avenue by installing,
using, and maintaining a Guard
House addition.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Dealer Tire, LLC, 3711 Chester
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the public
right-of-way of Perkins Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining a
Guard House addition, at the following location:
DESCRIPTION OF GUARDHOUSE
ENCROACHMENT INTO THE
RIGHT-OF-WAY
OF PERKINS AVENUE
Situated in the State of Ohio, County of Cuyahoga, City of Cleveland,
being part of Original 10 Acre Lot No’s
92 and 93, and more fully described as
follows:
Commencing for Reference at a
point on the southerly right-of-way
line of Perkins Avenue, 70 feet wide,
at the northwesterly corner of the Lot
Consolidation for Dealer Commerce,
LTD, as recorded in Volume 346, Page
59 of the Cuyahoga County Map
Records; Thence, South 89°56'34"
East, along the southerly right-ofway line of Perkins Avenue, a distance of 139.13 feet to the TRUE
PLACE OF BEGINNING of the
Encroachment Permit herein to be
described;
Course No. 1.
Thence, North 00°03'26" East, a distance of 3.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 2.
Thence, South 89°56'34" East, parallel to the southerly line of Perkins
Avenue, a distance of 12.00 feet to a
point;
Course No. 3.
Thence, South 00°03'26" West, a
distance of 3.00 feet to the southerly
right-of-way line of Perkins Avenue;
Course No. 4.
Thence, North 89°56'34" West,
along said southerly line, a distance
of 12.00 feet to the beginning, containing 36 square feet of land, more or
less, as prepared by McSteen and
Associates in December of 2011 under
Project Number 11-252, and is subject
to all legal highways and easement of
record.
Legal Description approved by Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications approved by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all
other required permits, including but
not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
Permittee has properly indemnified

50

January 25, 2012
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 71-12.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Mitchell,
Miller,
Cleveland
and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Miceli-Lograsso
Development Company IV LLC, to
encroach into the public right-of-way
above East 90th Street by installing,
using, and maintaining a pedestrian
bridge and a small pipe trestle that
will carry milk product from their
new Milk Unloading building to their
existing manufacturing facility.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Miceli-Lograsso Development
Company IV LLC, 2721 East 90th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the public
right-of-way above East 90th Street
by installing, using, and maintaining
a pedestrian bridge and a small pipe
trestle that will carry milk product
from their new Milk Unloading building to their existing manufacturing
facility; at the following locations:
Pipe Trestle Encroachment
Legal Description (0.0069 Acres)
The following strip of land being
6.00 feet in uniform width, situated in
part of the City of Cleveland, County
of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio, and being
a parcel of land bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at the Northwest Corner of Lot No. 10 in E. Sells’ Subdivision as recorded in Volume 4, Page 46
of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence South 30°00'00” West, along
the Northwesterly line of said Lot No.
10, also being the Southeasterly rightof-way line of East 90th Street, a distance of 34.15 feet to The Point of
Beginning;
Thence South 30°00'00" West, continuing along the Northwesterly line
of said Lot No. 10 and Lot No. 11, also
being the Southeasterly right-of-way
line of East 90th Street, a distance of
6.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 60°06'02" West, a distance of 50.42 feet to a point on the
Southeasterly line of Lot. No. 52, also
being the Northwesterly right-of-way
line of said East 90th Street;
Thence North 30° 00'00" East, along
the Southeasterly line of said Lot No.
52 and Lot No. 53, also being the Northwesterly right-of-way line of said
East 90th Street a distance of 6.00 feet
to a point;
Thence South 60°06'02" East, a distance of 50.42 feet to the Point of
Beginning, enclosing 0.0069 acres of

January 25, 2012
land, Subject to all Legal Highways,
Easements and Restrictions Written
or Recorded.
The clearance from the crown in
the road to the bottom of the bridge is
16'0".
The distance from the crown in the
road to the top of the encroachment is
22'0".
This Legal Description was prepared by Poggemeyer Design Group,
Inc.
Pedestrian Bridge Encroachment
Legal Description (0.0178 Acres)
The following strip of land being
15.00 feet in uniform width, situated
in part of the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio, and
being a parcel of land bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at the Northwest Corner of Lot No. 8 in E. Sells’ Subdivision
as recorded in Volume 4, Page 46 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence South 30°00'00" West,
along the Northwesterly line of said
Lot No. 8, also being the Southeasterly
right-of-way line of East 90th Street, a
distance of 26.80 feet to The Point of
Beginning;
Thence South 30°00'00" West, continuing along the Northwesterly line
of said Lot No. 8 and Lot No. 9, also
being the Southeasterly right-of-way
line of East 90th Street, a distance of
15.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 60°06'02" West, a distance of 50.42 feet to a point on the
Southeasterly line of Lot. No. 54, also
being the Northwesterly right-of-way
line of said East 90th Street;
Thence North 30°00'00" East, along
the Southeasterly line of said Lot No.
54 and Lot No. 55, also being the Northwesterly right-of-way line of said
East 90th Street a distance of 15.00
feet to a point;
Thence South 60°06'02" East, a distance of 50.42 feet to the Point of
Beginning, enclosing 0.0178 acres of
land, Subject to all Legal Highways,
Easements and Restrictions Written
or Recorded.
The clearance from the crown in
the road to the bottom of the bridge is
16'0".
The distance from the crown in the
road to the top of the encroachment is
36'0".
This Legal Description was prepared by Poggemeyer Design Group,
Inc.
Legal Descriptions approved by Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications approved by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all
other required permits, including but
not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
Permittee has properly indemnified
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).

The City Record
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 72-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating Fenn Tower (also known as the
National Town and Country Club) as
a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate Fenn Tower
(also known as the National Town
and Country Club) as a landmark;
and
Whereas, a public hearing under
division (b)(2) of Section 161.04 was
held on December 8, 2011 to discuss
the proposed designation of Fenn
Tower (also known as the National
Town and Country Club) as a landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of Fenn
Tower (also known as the National
Town and Country Club) as a landmark and has set forth certain findings of fact constituting the basis for
its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health, and
safety in that the immediate protection of the historic landmark is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest
or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Fenn Tower (also
known as the National Town and
Country Club), whose street address
in the City of Cleveland is 1983 East
24th Street, also known as 2401-07
Euclid Avenue, N. E., Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number is 103-04-008, and is also known as
the following described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being parts of
Original Ten Acre Lot Numbers 82
and 83, and further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Euclid Avenue (99 feet wide) at its
intersection with the former centerline of East 24th Street (60 feet wide)
now vacated as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 210 of Maps, Page
13 of Cuyahoga County Records, from
which point a stone monument was
found South 8º27'44" East, 0.05 feet;
Course No. 1.
Thence North 8º27'44" West along
said former centerline of East 24th
Street, now vacated, 228.00 feet to its
point of intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Northerly line
of Parcel Number 4 of land conveyed
to the State of Ohio by deed dated
November 1, 1965 and recorded in Volume 11664, Page 661 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Course No. 2.
Thence North 81º19'59" East along
said Westerly prolongation and the

51

5
Northerly line of Parcel Number 4,
113.25 feet to the Northeasterly corner
thereof;
Course No. 3.
Thence South 8º27'44" East along
the Easterly line of said Parcel Number 4, 228.00 feet to the Northerly line
of said Euclid Avenue;
Course No. 4.
Thence South 81º-19'59" West along
said Northerly line of Euclid Avenue,
113.25 feet to the place of beginning,
containing 25,821 square feet (0.5928
acres), according to a survey made in
November, 2004 by Garrett & Associates, Inc., Registered Engineers and
Surveyors, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways,
Description approved by Greg
Esber, Section Chief Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property having special character or special historical or aesthetic value as part of
the development, heritage, or cultural
characteristics of the City, State, or
the United States, is designated a
landmark under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 73-12.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more consultants, computer software developers, system
integrators, and project managers
necessary to design, develop, and
implement a converged communications system project for the Cleveland
Airport System; and authorizing one
or more requirement contracts for
hardware, software, computer supplies, and other necessary supplies,
equipment, and services to implement
the converged communications system project for a period of one year
with one option to renew for an additional one year period, exercisable by
the Director of Port Control, for the
Department of Port Control.
Whereas, the Cleveland Airport
System currently operates certain discrete, inefficient, and/or obsolete
information technology, communications and other related systems serving Airport System customers; and
Whereas, the City desires to
improve Airport System customer service, public safety, Americans with
Disability Act (ADA) compliance,
and to enhance airport productivity
and operational efficiency, and augment generation of non-aeronautical
revenues in support of the System’s
strategic goal of becoming the “Best
Performing Organization in the
Industry”; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more con-

6
sultants, computer software developers or vendors, systems integrators,
and/or project managers, or one or
more firms of consultants, computer
software developers or vendors, systems integrators, and/or project managers, for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of
the several departments of the City of
Cleveland to provide professional services necessary to design, develop,
and implement a converged communications system project for the Cleveland Airport System, including, but
not limited to, installation, integration, migration, testing, training, and
providing maintenance, technical
support and other related services,
acquisition of equipment, hardware,
software and software licenses,
and/or development necessary to
update, upgrade, enhance, interface,
and integrate various information
technology systems at and for the Airport System including, but not limited
to, customer-facing systems such as
flight and baggage display, audio
and visual paging, network and telephony infrastructure, and safety and
service systems supporting the Airport Operations Center, and other
associated professional services, for
the Department of Port Control.
The selection of the consultants,
computer software developers, or vendors for the licenses or services shall
be made by the Board of Control on
the nomination of the Director of Port
Control from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed by
the Board of Control. The contract or
contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of P ort Control, and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period of
one year of the necessary items of
hardware, software, computer supplies, and other necessary supplies,
equipment, and services which are
not covered under the professional
services contract authorized by this
ordinance, necessary to implement
the converged communications system project, including maintenance
on the above for a period of one year,
with one option to renew for an additional one-year period, cancelable by
the Director of Port Control on thirty
days’ written notice, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for
Department of Port Control. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for
the entire term.
Section 3. That the costs of the contract or contracts be charged against
the proper appropriation accounts
and the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with
all later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts

The City Record
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 5. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into any
third-party software license agreements necessary to effectuate the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 6. That the cost of the professional services shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 114, and
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the proceeds of any future
Airport Revenue bonds issued for this
purpose, RQS 3001, RL 2012-7.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
and
Transportation,
Aviation
Finance.
Ord. No. 74-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
execute a deed of easement granting
to the Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority certain easement
rights on portions of Market Square
Park adjoining both West 25th Street
and Lorain Avenue and declaring the
easement rights not needed for public
use.
Whereas, the Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority (“RTA”)
has requested the Department of Public Works to convey certain easement
rights on portions of Market Square
Park adjoining both West 25th Street
and Lorain Avenue; and
Whereas, RTA requires the easement to install bus shelters and electrical conduits; and
Whereas, the easement rights to be
granted are not needed for public use;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, it is found and determined that
an easement interest in the following
described property is not needed for
public use:
GCRTA EASEMENT AT
MARKET SQUARE
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of land
known as “Market Square” property
in James Webster’s Allotment of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Number
69 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 10 of Maps, Page 14 of the
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
described as follows:
Beginning at an iron pin in a monument box in the centerline of W. 25th

52

January 25, 2012
Street (82.50 feet wide), said pin also
being along the south right-of-way
line of Lorain Avenue (66 feet wide);
Thence, N 33°57'04" W along the
centerline of W. 25th Street, a distance of 33.00 feet to a point, said
point being at the intersection of the
centerlines of W. 25th Street and
Lorain Avenue;
Thence, S 56°18'16" W along the
centerline of Lorain Avenue, a distance of 41.40 feet to a point;
Thence, N 33°41'44" W a distance of
33.00 feet to a point at the intersection
of the northerly right-of-way line of
Lorain Avenue and the westerly
right-of-way line of West 25th Street,
said point also being the true point of
beginning for the easement herein
described;
Course 1.
Thence, S 56°18'16" W along the
said northerly right-of-way line of
Lorain Avenue and parallel to the centerline, a distance of 90.00 feet to a
point;
Course 2.
Thence, N 33°41'44" W along a line
perpendicular to the northerly rightof-way line of Lorain Avenue, a distance of 24.00 feet to a point;
Course 3.
Thence, N 56°18'16" E along a line
parallel with the centerline of Lorain
Avenue, a distance of 69.89 feet to a
point;
Course 4.
Thence, N 33°57'04" W along a line
parallel with the centerline of West
25th Street, a distance of 41.91 feet to
a point;
Course 5.
Thence, N 56°02'56" E along a line
perpendicular to the westerly rightof-way line of West 25th Street, a distance of 20.00 feet to a point;
Course 6.
Thence, S 33°57'04" E along said
westerly right-of-way line of West
25th Street, a distance of 66.00 feet to
the true point of beginning, containing 0.069 acres (2,997.74 square feet)
of land, more or less, subject to all
legal right of ways and easements of
records, as previously recorded.
Bearings are to an assumed meridian
and used to depict angles only.
Section 2. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to convey the abovedescribed non-exclusive easement to
RTA, subject to any conditions stated
in this ordinance, at a price determined by the Board of Control to be
fair market value.
Section 3. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to install bus
shelters and electrical conduits.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that the
easement may include reasonable
right of entry rights to the City; that
the easement shall not be assignable
without the consent of the Director of
Public Works; that the easement may
require that RTA indemnify the City
and provide reasonable insurance,
and shall require RTA to maintain
any RTA improvements located within the easement and pay any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
referred to above shall be made by
official deed of easement prepared by
the Director of Law and executed by
the Director of Public Works on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The

January 25, 2012
deed of easement shall contain any
additional terms and conditions as
are required to protect the interest of
the City. The Directors of Public
Works and Law are authorized to execute any other documents, including
without limitation, contracts for right
of entry, as may be necessary to effect
the installation of bus shelters and
electrical conduits in Market Square
Park on portions on both West 25th
Street and Lorain Avenue within the
property described in this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 75-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants
from the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development for
the CDBG Year 38 under the Title I of
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2012 Federal
HOME Investment Partnerships Act
Program, Emergency Shelter Grant
Program, and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
apply for and accept grants from the
U. S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) in the following
approximate
amounts:
$20,097,565 to conduct the 2012 Year 38
Community
Development
Block
Grant Program; $3,996,953 to conduct
the Federal HOME Investment Partnerships Act Program; $1,049,680 to
conduct the Emergency Shelter Grant
Program; and $900,000 for the Housing Opportunities for Persons with
AIDS (HOPWA) Program, for the purposes set forth in the budgets and
according thereto and in compliance
with the requirements of Title I of the
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 and applicable rules
and regulations. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grants, and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the budgets for the
grants.
Section 2. That the budgets for the
grants, placed in File No. 75-12-A,
made a part hereof as if fully rewritten herein, are approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Commit-

The City Record
tees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 76-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 4, 5, and 9 of Ordinance No.
856-07, passed May 21, 2007, relating to
establishing the City of Cleveland as
a Community Reinvestment Area
under Section 3735.65 et seq. of the
Ohio Revised Code.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 4, 5, and 9 of
Ordinance No. 856-07, passed May 21,
2007, are amended to read as follows:
Section 4. That effective January 1,
2010, all owners of real property in the
Community Reinvestment Area that
file an application with the Housing
Officer for an exemption from real
property taxation, must demonstrate
that new construction or remodeling
meets the City’s Cleveland Green
Building Standard found in the Cleveland Green Building Standard Handbook, effective January 28, 2010, and
which may be amended or updated
from time to time by the Department
of Community Development, in order
to be eligible for residential tax
abatement.
Section 5. That the Commissioner of
Neighborhood Development for the
City of Cleveland shall serve as Housing Officer, as defined by Section
3735.65 et seq. of the Ohio Revised
Code, for the Community Reinvestment Area described above and shall
administer all activities carried out
under Section 3735.65 et seq. of the
Ohio Revised Code and this ordinance.
Section 9. That the Community
Reinvestment Area described in this
ordinance shall expire on June 4, 2017,
unless an extension is authorized by
an amendment of Cleveland City
Council.
Section 2. That existing Sections 4,
5, and 9 of Ordinance No. 856-07,
passed May 21, 2007, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 77-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development and Economic Development to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. 57841 with Fries &
Schuele, Ltd. to change the loan maturity date from June 1, 2012 to June 1,
2014.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 21901, passed March 19, 2001, this Council
authorized the Directors of Economic
Development and Community Development to enter into a Neighborhood
Development Investment Fund Contract with Fries & Schuele, Ltd. and
Carrol Development, Ltd. to provide
economic development assistance to

53

7
partially finance the rehabilitation of
the Fries & Schuele Building and the
construction of a mixed-use condominium and parking structure adjacent to the Fries & Schuele Building,
located in Cleveland, Ohio (“Borrower”); and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 60510, passed June 7, 2010, this Council
authorized an amendment to the
Fries & Schuele, Contract No. 57841;
and
Whereas, an additional amendment
is necessary; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Community Development and Economic Development are authorized to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 57841 and any collateral documents with Fries & Schuele, Ltd to
extend the loan term from 11 to 13
years and to extend the loan maturity
date from June 1, 2012 to June 1, 2014.
Section 2. That the amendment and
all related documents will be prepared by the Director of Law
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 78-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
Clean Ohio grant from the State of
Ohio Department of Development for
environmental assessment and remediation regarding the property at 2151
Scranton Road; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts with Scranton Averell, Inc., or
its designee, and/or Ferry Cap & Set
Screw Co., or its designee, and authorizing one or more professional consultants or one or more firms of consultants who employ an Ohio VAPCertified professional to provide professional services necessary to implement the grant project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
apply for and accept a Clean Ohio
grant in an amount up to $300,000,
from the State of Ohio Department of
Development, or its successor or
designee, for environmental assessment and remediation regarding the
property at 2151 Scranton Road, to be
used to implement the project as
described in the executive summary
below; that the Director is authorized
to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under the grant; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in the executive summary
for the grant contained in the file
described below and in any subse-

8
quent grant amendments, which
amendments will be filed with Council.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, File No. 78-12-A, A
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
the public hearing on this legislation,
is approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
Scranton Averell, Inc., or its designee,
and/or Ferry Cap & Set Screw Co., or
its designee, to implement the grant
project.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more firms
of consultants who employ an Ohio
VAP-Certified professional for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
grant project.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Economic Development from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Economic Development for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
Section 5. That the contract or contracts authorized by this ordinance
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Economic Development, and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized will be
paid from the fund or subfunds that
are credited the proceeds of the grant
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 79-12.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Mitchell, and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1578-11,
passed December 5, 2011, relating to
one or more concession agreements
for the operation of first-class food
and beverage service in connection
with renting the Rotunda in City
Hall.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1578-11, passed December 5,
2011, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1.
That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Public

The City Record
Works is authorized to enter into a
Concession Agreement on the basis of
competitive proposals for the operation of first-class food and beverage
service in connection with renting the
Rotunda in City Hall under Section
131.081 of the Codified Ordinances and
for marketing the rental of the Rotunda for catered events, for a period not
to exceed two years, with a one-year
option to renew exercisable by the
Director of Public Works. The selection of the concessionaire or concessionaires shall be made by the Board
of Control on the nomination of the
Director of Public Works. The concession fee to be paid to the City shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
Section 2. That existing Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 1578-11, passed December 5, 2011, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation, Legislation, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 80-12.
By Council Members Zone, Miller,
Cleveland
and
Sweeney
(By
Request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of West
68th Street.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of West 68th Street, as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot
Number 34 further described as follows:
All that portion of West 68th Street
(50.00 feet wide) extending southerly
from the southerly right of way line
of Camden Avenue (30.00 feet wide)
also being the easterly prolongation
of the northerly line of sub lot 160 in
the James M. Hoyt & Sons Allotment
as shown in volume 5, page 55 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records to its
southerly terminus.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

54

January 25, 2012
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN
FULL AND PASSED
Ord. No. 67-12.
By Council Members Dow, K. Johnson, Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
accept a grant from the Ohio Cultural
Facilities Commission for improvements to League Park; and to amend
Section 10 of Ordinance No. 607-10,
passed June 7, 2010, relating to the
public improvement and professional
services contracts to improve League
Park.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 60710, passed June 7, 2010, this Council
authorized the public improvement of
constructing, rehabilitating, renovating, replacing, or otherwise improving recreation facilities, buildings,
and other similar structures, and
parks and playgrounds, including
League Park; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 607-10 also
authorized professional architectural, landscape architectural, engineers, and other consultants necessary to effectuate the public improvements; and
Whereas, under this current ordinance, the Director of Capital Projects is accepting a grant in the
amount of $150,000, plus the City is
obligating an additional $150,000
towards improving League Park; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept a
grant in the amount of $150,000, from
the Ohio Cultural Facilities Commission for improvements to League
Park; that the Director is authorized
to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds
under the grant; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 67-12-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation, including the
obligation of the City of Cleveland to
provide cash matching funds in the
sum of $150,000 from Fund No. 20 SF
523, is approved in all respects and
shall not be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That Section 10 of Ordinance No. 607-10, passed June 7, 2010,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 10. That the cost of any
expenditure authorized by this ordinance shall be paid from the fund or
funds which are credited the proceeds
of the sale of subordinate lien income
tax bonds authorized by Ordinance
No. 458-10, passed April 26, 2010, if the
City sells such bonds, and from Fund
Nos. 20 SF 377, 20 SF 381, 20 SF 392, 20
SF 382, 20 SF 391, 20 SF 501, 20 SF 503,
20 SF 504, 20 SF 508, 20 SF 509, 20 SF
516, 20 SF 517, 20 SF 523, and from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted in the
amount of $150,000 from the Ohio Cultural Facilities Commission for
improvements to League Park and
the cash match, and from any other
funds appropriated for this purpose.
Section 4. That Section 10 of Ordinance No. 607-10, passed June 7, 2010,
is repealed.

January 25, 2012
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 68-12.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept a 2012
GRO1000 Garden and Green Space
Grant from the United States Conference of Mayors to develop Gateway
Park to be located on a vacant land
bank lot at East 82nd and Kinsman
Avenue; and authorizing the Director
to enter into one or more contracts
with one or more non-profit agencies
to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
apply for and accept a 2012 GRO1000
Garden and Green Space Grant in the
amount up to $15,000, from the United
States Conference of Mayors to develop Gateway Park to be located on a
vacant land bank lot at East 82nd and
Kinsman Avenue; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant; and
that the funds are appropriated for
the purposes described in the summary for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 68-12-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation, including the
obligation of the City of Cleveland, if
required under the grant application,
to provide cash matching funds up to
$10,000 from Fund No. 19 SF 628, is
approved in all respects and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
one or more non-profit agencies to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance and Fund No. 19 SF 628.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 69-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Cleveland State University to encroach into the public
right-of-way of Euclid Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining a
Light Tower Campus Marker.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Cleveland State University, 2121
Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115
(“Permittee”), to encroach into the
public right-of-way of Euclid Avenue
by installing, using, and maintaining
a Light Tower Campus Marker at the
following location:
LIGHT TOWER ENCROACHMENT
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Original
Ten Acre Lot Number 59 and being
further bounded and described as follows: Beginning at a 1 inch iron pin
monument found at the intersection
of the centerline of East 30th Street,
and the centerline of Euclid Avenue,
99 feet wide; Thence along the centerline of said Euclid Avenue South
80°55'35" West, a distance of 941.44
feet to a point; Thence South
09°04'25" East, a distance of 37.73 feet
to the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF
BEGINNING of the herein described
permit area:
Course 1.
Thence South 53°14'22" East, a distance of 4.00 feet to a point;
Course 2.
Thence South 36°01'13" West, a distance of 4.00 feet to a point;
Course 3.
Thence North 53°14'22" West, a distance of 4.00 feet to a point;
Course 4.
Thence North 36°01'13" East, a distance of 4.00 feet to the Principal
Place of Beginning and containing 16
square feet of land, according to a survey by Christopher J. Dempsey, Professional Surveyor No. 6914, Dempsey
Surveying Company dated January 6,
2012.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of the
Office of Capital Projects. That the
encroaching structure(s) permitted
by this ordinance shall conform to
plans and specifications approved by
the Manager of Engineering and Construction.
That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building
Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
Permittee has properly indemnified
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachment(s) permitted.

55

9
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 81-12.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to make certain specified global changes in the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
Whereas, the Clerk of Council has
engaged American Legal Publishing
Corporation to print the hard copy
and on-line version of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976;
and
Whereas, the Clerk of Council has
determined that certain style and formatting changes to the codified ordinances are needed to update the code
so that it is gender neutral and to
ensure that formatting is consistent
throughout the code; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council,
is authorized to make certain global
changes to the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 in its 2012 printing and the on-line version of those
ordinances, by instructing American
Legal Publishing Corporation to
make the following changes, and during the term of its contract to continuously make these changes as needed
in future printed and on-line versions
of the Code, unless otherwise directed
by the Clerk: changing any references from “he” to read “he or she”,
and otherwise making the document
“gender neutral”; italicizing all division captions; making all numbers,
including percentages and dollar
amounts, with the numbers in words
first followed by the numerical number in parentheses; inserting the section symbol in front of each section
number that heads the section; changing punctuation at the end of lists to
semi-colons; placing hard returns
between divisions; and changing all
lists containing “dot leaders” to table
form.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

10
Ord. No. 85-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance naming
the tennis courts at Rockefeller Park
located at Martin Luther King, Jr.
Drive and East 105th Street “The
Judge Jean Murrell Capers Tennis
Courts at Rockefeller Park”.
Whereas, Judge Jean Murrell
Capers was born on January 11, 1913
in Georgetown, Kentucky, the third of
five children of the late Edward W.
and Dolly Ferguson Murrell; and
Whereas, Judge Jean Murrell
Capers attended Cleveland’s Central
High School, where she not only
excelled in academics, but was also a
great athlete in various sports. She
was an amateur tennis champion who
played at the Rockefeller Park
courts. She is also an original member
of the Forest City Tennis Club; and
Whereas, at the age of 16, she
entered college where she continued
to excel in academics and graduated
from Western Reserve University’s
School of Education. She taught elementary school for WHEREAS,
Judge Jean Murrell Capers was born
on January 11, 1913 in Georgetown,
Kentucky, the third of five children of
the late Edward W. several years in
the Cleveland Public School System;
and
Whereas, in the early years, after
observing inadequacies in her community, she sought and won election
to Cleveland City Council in 1949
where she served as Chair or the City
Planning Committee and as a member
of the Committee on Public Welfare;
and
Whereas, still sensing the need for
improvements in her community and
that she would be just the right person to make some positive changes,
Judge Capers attended John Marshall
School of Law at night while serving
as a Council member and received her
Law degree. Her hard work and dedication to her community eventually
led to her being appointed by Governor James Rhodes as a Municipal
Court Judge; and
Whereas, in 1946, Judge Capers was
appointed to the City of Cleveland
Prosecutor’s Office as the first
African-American
woman
to
be
appointed and resigned in 1949 when
elected to City Council. She was later
appointed to the Office of the Attorney General where she served from
1960 through 1964 and continued in
the private practice of law. After 32
years in the practice of law in January 1977, Governor Rhodes appointed
Judge Capers to the Cleveland Municipal Court where she served faithfully
until her retirement in January, 1986,
and returned to the private practice of
law; and
Whereas, Judge Capers, at the age
of 87, although retired, still practices
law and continues to serve her community where she has resided most of
her adult life and her church. Her
goal in life was never to make money
practicing law, but to help the people
who needed help and were able to pay
with just their pocket change; and
Whereas, in addition to a number of
accomplishments, Judge Capers has
either founded or helped organize
many political groups committed to
the upward mobility of women
regardless of color or political persuasion; and
Whereas, this Council recognizes,
respects, and admires Judge Jean
Murrell Capers for her deep concern
for the welfare of her fellow citizens,
and wishes her continued success and
happiness; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure for the immediate preservation of public peace,

The City Record
property, health or safety, now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the tennis courts at
Rockefeller Park located at Martin
Luther King, Jr. Drive and East 105th
Street shall be named “The Judge
Jean Murrell Capers Tennis Courts at
Rockefeller Park.”
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN
FULL AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 82-12.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C1 Liquor
Permit at 11201 Forest Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 1557-11,
objecting to said permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
New C1 Liquor Permit to 11201 Forest
Avenue by Resolution No. 1557-11
adopted by the Council on October 31,
2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit to Craig Goins, DBA
Bailey’s Corner, 11201 Forest Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 3242965 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1557-11, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 83-12.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit at 770 East
185th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of

56

January 25, 2012
ownership of D5 and D6 Liquor Permit from Winners on 185th, LLC, DBA
Winners Sports Club & Grill, 770 East
185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 9710420 to Nu
Way, LLC, DBA Winners Sports Club
& Grill, 770 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number
6481710; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of D5 and D6 Liquor Permit from Winners on 185th, LLC, DBA
Winners Sports Club & Grill, 770 East
185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 9710420 to Nu
Way, LLC, DBA Winners Sports Club
& Grill, 770 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number
6481710; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.

January 25, 2012
Res. No. 84-12.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 2165
West 47th Street, 1st floor and basement, and repealing Resolution No.
998-11, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 2165
West 47th Street, 1st floor and basement by Resolution No. 998-11 adopted
by the Council on July 20, 2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to Antoinette
Burgess, DBA Tony’s Deli, 2165 West
47th Street, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 1115305 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
998-11, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 1552-11.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
employ one or more professional consultants to provide services necessary
to manage the Gateway East Garage,
for a period up to three years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1648-11.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 3607 & 3601 Seymour
Avenue to Luis Burgos or Caribe
Development, LLC.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1650-11.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located on West 18th St. and Auburn
Ave. to Nestle L. J. Minor or designee.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
by
Committees
on
recommended
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1684-11.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
lease certain property located at 14550
Lorain Avenue from Pleasant Valley
Enterprises Limited Partnership, for
the public purpose of providing a base
of operations for services provided in
the northwest section of the City, for a
term of one year with two one-year
options to renew, the second of which
is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Public
City
Planning,
Finance,
Works,
Law; Relieved of Committee on Public Service and City Planning; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 10, 11,
and 12 in their entirety and insert
“year.”.
2. In Section 2, strikes lines 2 and
3 in their entirety and insert “term
of one year.”
3. In Section 3, line 2, strike line
2 in its entirety and insert “rental
of $86,000 which is”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1685-11.
By Council Members Dow, Brancatelli, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
known as Permanent Parcel Numbers
118-04-036 through 118-04-044 to Superior Technology Partners, LLC, or its
designee, for purposes of developing
a data storage facility; and authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Option Agreement with Superior Technology Partners, LLC, or its designee.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committees on Community and
Economic Development; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

57

11
Ord. No. 1717-11.
Council
Members
Keane,
By
Sweeney and J. Johnson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with
Siegel & Shuster Society for the lease
of space on the baggage claim level of
the passenger terminal at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport for the
display of a Superman exhibit, for the
Department of Port Control, for a period of five years, with three five-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1718-11.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of asphalt for
runways, taxiways, ramps, and roadways, including labor and materials
for repair and installation, if necessary, for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a period of two years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which is
exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1-12.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the first option to renew Contract
No. 69192 with SS&G Financial Services, Inc. to provide professional services necessary to assist the Division
of Assessments and Licenses with
improving its audit practices and procedures.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 6-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to employ one or more professional consultants to evaluate, assess,
and remediate brownfield properties
throughout the City of Cleveland.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 2, strike lines 2 and
3 in their entirety and insert “exceed
an aggregate amount of $200,000
payable from Fund No. 17 SF 965,
RQS 9501, 2012-3.”.

The City Record

12
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
SECOND READING
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 1602-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the Use and
Area Districts of lands located on the
south side of Hancock Avenue east of
West 28th Street to Semi-Industry Use
District and a ‘C’ Area District from
Two Family Residential and a ‘B’
Area District (Map Change No. 2382,
Sheet Number 1).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE
Ord. No. 188-11.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 670.14 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 171-04
passed February 4, 2004 relating to
armed security guards.
Without objection, Ordinance No.
188-11 was relieved of further consideration of all committees and laid on
the table pursuant to the Rules of
Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17.
Nays 0. Ordinance No. 188-11 Laid on
the Table.
MOTION
By Council Member Brady, seconded by Council Member Dow and
unanimously
carried
that
the
absence of Council Members Joe
Cimperman and Kenneth L. Johnson
be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:00p.m. to meet on Monday, January
30, 2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

BOARD OF CONTROL

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

MGL, Inc.
2.52% CSB/MBE
$127,296.00

January 18, 2012
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, January 18,
2012 at 10:34 a.m. with Interim Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Interim
Director
Langhenry, Directors Dumas, WithCox,
Butler,
Flask,
Rush,
ers,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich,
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
Others: Jomarie Wasik, Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
Walker-Minor,
Interim
Natoya
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Division of Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 18-12.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 247-11, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 6, 2011, Standard Parking Corporation (“Consultant”), is selected
upon the nomination of the Director
of Port Control from a list of qualified persons or firms determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control as the
firm of consultants available to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City to
provide professional services necessary to provide parking management services for the Department of
Port Control, for a period of five
years, with one five-year option to
renew.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Standard Parking Corporation
for the above-mentioned services,
based upon its proposal dated October 28, 2011, which contract shall be
prepared by the Director of Law,
shall provide that the compensation
to Standard Parking Corporation for
the services authorized shall not
exceed $662,477.00 plus one-half of
one percent of net revenues and
approved reimbursable maintenance
and operating expenses, and shall
contain such other provisions as the
Director of Law deems necessary to
protect and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subconsultants by Standard Parking Corporation is approved:
Percentage
Amount

Subconsultant

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

January 25, 2012

Kilbane’s Auto Service,
Inc.

1.08% CSB
$ 54,800.00

Advantage Health Care,
Inc.
0.04% CSB/FBE
$ 2,260.00
R-Cap Security, LLC
0.59% CSB/MBE
$ 30,240.00

58

The Security Management
Group
5.55% CSB/MBE
$280,463.00
Insignia Graphics, LLC
0.33% CSB/MBE
$ 17,057.00
Fabrizi Recycling, Inc.
1.22% CSB/MBE
$ 62,000.00
Hall Harris, LLC

6.09% CSB/MBE
$307,696.00

Fastsigns

0.03% CSB/MBE
$ 1,735.00

J & L Work Apparel, Inc.
0.08% FBE
$ 4,160.00
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich, Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
Resolution No. 19-12.
By Director Wasik.
Whereas, under authority of Ordinance No. 619-10, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on June 7,
2011, this Board of Control, by its
Resolution
No.
543-11,
adopted
November 11, 2011, and corrected
under Resolution No. 567-11, adopted
November 23, 2011, approved Perk
Company, Inc. as lowest responsible
bidder for the public improvement of
reconstructing
Fulton
Avenue
between Denison Avenue and Clark
Avenue, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects, in the
aggregate amount of $5,306,789.45;
and
Whereas,
Perk
Company,
Inc.
wishes to use the services of an
additional subcontractor; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
additional subcontractor by Perk
Company, Inc. for the aforementioned public improvement contract
is approved:
Fabrizi Trucking and Paving
(Other)
$654,540.00 — 12.4%
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich, Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
Resolution No. 20-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program. the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 110-03-093 located at 713 East
115th Street in Ward 9; and

January 25, 2012
Whereas, Section 183,021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, James L. Lewis, Jr. has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland. Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with James L. Lewis,
Jr. for the sale and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
110-03-093
located at 713 East 115th Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall he
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich, Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
Resolution No. 21-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 007-07-012 further known as Lot
1 in Volume 321, Page 13 of Cuyahoga County Records, located at
West 38th Street in Ward 15; and
Whereas. Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Decebal B. Epuran has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
tinder Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Decebal B. Epuran for the sale and development of
Permanent Parcel No. No. 007-07-012
further known as Lot 1 in Volume
321, Page 13 of Cuyahoga County
Records, located at West 38th Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich, Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
Resolution No. 22-12.
By Director Nichols.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2197-88, passed January 30, 1989, as amended by Ordinances Nos. 1458-90 and 1166-96,
passed June 18, 1990 and June 9,
1997, respectively, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies (“Commissioner”) is authorized, by and at
the direction of the Board of Control, to sell certain parcels of the
Chagrin
Highlands
Development
Area described therein and consisting of 5.8006 acres, and located in
the City of Beachwood (“Property”),
which parcels are no longer needed
for public use, according to the
terms of the Master Development
Agreement (“MDA”) set forth in the
ordinance; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under authority of Ordinance
No. 2197-88, passed January 30, 1989,
as amended by Ordinances Nos. 145890 and 1166-96, passed June 18, 1990
and June 9, 1997, respectively, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is directed to sell the parcels
comprising the Property, and no
longer needed for public use, to Chagrin Highlands, LTD., according to
the MDA and more fully described
as:
Situated in the City of Beachwood,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Original Warrensville Township Lot #68
and being a 5.8006 acres Lot Split
Parcel A from a 131.2607 acres Parcel (PP #742-39-001) constituting
part of lands conveyed to the City
of Cleveland by deed dated December 5, 1904 and recorded December
23, 1904 as recorded in Volume 968,
Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records and further bounded and
described as follows;
Commencing at a 5/8" iron pin in
a monument box found on the Westerly line of said O.L. #68 marking
the intersection of the centerlines of
Green Road (80 feet wide) & Harvard Road (80 feet wide), said point
being a Southwesterly corner of said
City of Beachwood, of which said
point bears South 00°44'38" East, a

59

13
distance of 2,280.94 feet from a 5/8"
iron pin with monument box found
at the intersection of the centerline
of said Harvard Road with the
Northwesterly corner of O.L. #68;
Thence
South
87°04'26"
East,
along said centerline of Harvard
Road, a distance of 481.01 feet to a
5/8" iron pin monument box found,
(0.08 feet North) and (0.09 feet
West);
Thence North 02°55'34" East, perpendicular to said centerline of Harvard Road, a distance of 40.00 feet
to a point on the Northerly sideline
thereof;
Thence
South
87°04'26"
East,
along said Northerly sideline of Harvard Road, a distance of 125.12 feet
to a point of curvature;
Thence
continuing
along
said
Northerly sideline of Harvard Road
and along the arc of a curve,
deflecting to the left, and having a
radius of 1,869.86 feet, a tangent of
194.65 feet, a delta of 11°53'09", a
chord of 387.20 feet which bears
North 86°58'59" East, a distance of
387.90 feet to a point of tangency;
Thence North 81°02'25" East, continuing along said Northerly sideline of Harvard Road, a distance of
601.80 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set
(w/yellow cap “D.F. Sheehy S-7849”),
and the Principal Place of Beginning of the premises herein intended to be described;
Course 1 Thence along the arc of
a curve, deflecting to the right, and
having a radius of 30.00 feet, a tangent of 30.00 feet, a delta of
90°00'00" and a chord of 42.43 feet
which bears North 53°57'35" West, a
distance of 47.12 feet to a 5/8" iron
pin set (w/yellow cap “D.F. Sheehy
S-7849”) at a point of tangency;
Course 2 Thence North 08°57'35"
West, a distance of 325.00 feet to a
5/8" iron pin set (w/yellow cap
“D.F. Sheehy S-7849”) at an angle
point;
Course 3 Thence North 81°02'25"
East, a distance of 100.00 feet to a
5/8" iron pin set (w/yellow cap
“D.F. Sheehy S-7849”) at an angle
point;
Course 4 Thence North 70°47'00"
East, a distance of 106.71 feet to a
5/8" iron pin set (w/yellow cap
“D.F. Sheehy S-7849”) at an angle
point;
Course 5 Thence North 81°02'25"
East, a distance of 200.00 feet to a
5/8" iron pin set (w/yellow cap
“D.F. Sheehy S-7849”) at an angle
point;
Course 6 Thence South 88°42'11"
East, a distance of 106.71 feet to a
5/8" iron pin set (w/yellow cap
“D.F. Sheehy S-7849”) at an angle
point;
Course 7 Thence North 81°02'25"
East, a distance of 25.00 feet to a
5/8" iron pin set (w/yellow cap
“D.F. Sheehy S-7849”) at an angle
point;
Course 8 Thence South 08°57'35"
East, a distance of 55.00 feet to a
5/8" iron pin set (w/yellow cap
“D.F. Sheehy S-7849”) at an angle
point;
Course 9 Thence North 81°02'25"
East, a distance of 160.00 feet to a
5/8" iron pin set (w/yellow cap
“D.F. Sheehy S-7849”) at an angle
point;
Course 10 Thence South 08°57'35"
East, a distance of 361.46 feet to a
5/8" iron pin set (w/yellow cap
“D.F. Sheehy S-7849”) on a Northerly curved sideline of aforementioned
Harvard Road;

14
Course 11 Thence along the arc of
said Northerly curved sideline of
Harvard Road, deflecting to the left,
and having a radius of 1,677.02 feet,
a tangent of 229.12 feet, a delta of
15°33'35" and a chord of 454.02 feet
which bears South 88°49'12" West, a
distance of 455.42 feet to a 5/8” iron
pin set (w/yellow cap “D.F. Sheehy
S-7849”) at a point of tangency;
Course 12 Thence South 81°02'25"
West, continuing along said Northerly sideline of Harvard Road, a distance of 215.16 feet to the Principal
Place of Beginning and containing
5.8006 acres (252,674 sq. ft.) of land
as surveyed by Donald F. Sheehy,
Registered Surveyor #7849 and as
calculated and described from Cuyahoga County Records by James A.
Wendorf, Registered Surveyor #6556
of Chagrin Valley Engineering, Ltd.,
in October, 2011, be the same more
or less but subject to all legal highways and easements of record;
The above described parcel is subject to an existing Slope/Conduit
Easement as shown on the Dedication Plat of Harvard Road as recorded in Volume 178, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Basis of bearing for this legal
description is North 81°02'25" East
as the centerline of said Harvard
Road (80 feet wide) and evidenced
by monuments found and is the
same as calculated and reproduced
from the Ohio State Plane Coordinates System North Zone by ties to
the O.D.O.T. Network using Station
GARF and are used to indicate
angles only.
The total consideration to be paid
for the Property shall be $237,646.93,
determined as provided by Section
4.2 of the MDA.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the Mayor and the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies are requested to execute and
deliver the official deed or deeds of
the City of Cleveland conveying the
Property including easements authorized in Resolution.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich, Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
727-11, passed June 6, 2011 by Cleveland City Council, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies is directed to convey the Property no longer
needed for public use, consisting of
Permanent Parcel Nos. 131-17-003
and 131-17-004, as further described
in the ordinance, in “as is” condition
and subject to certain restrictive
covenants, to The Greater Cleveland
Community Improvement Corporation, for the consideration as follows:
i) Payment of $10 to the City;
ii) Within 30 days of conveyance
of the Property, consolidation of the
Property with the existing Cuyahoga Valley Industrial Center (Permanent Parcel No. 131-14-001 and/or
No. 131-14-003);
iii) On or before September 30,
2012, certification of the Cuyahoga
Valley Industrial Center, including
the Property, as a “Job Ready Site”
by the State of Ohio, in accordance
with the Ohio Job Ready Sites Program;
iv) The restriction that no advertising signs or billboards will be
placed on the Property except permitted identification signs; and
v) Such other terms and conditions, restrictions, and covenants as
are deemed necessary or appropriate, including restrictive covenants
and reversionary interests as may
be specified by the Director of Economic Development or the Director
of Law;
which is determined to be not less
than Fair Market Value.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the Mayor and the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies are requested to execute and
deliver the official deed of the City
of Cleveland conveying the Property.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich, Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Smith.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

January 25, 2012
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2012
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 12-4 3395 East 93rd
Street (Ward 5)
Darrell Wilborn, owner, appeals to
expand and renovate a motor vehicle repair garage located on a 136'
x 140' site at the northeast corner
of East 93rd Street and Raymond
Avenue in a C1 Local Retail Business District; such use being first
permitted in a Semi-Industry District, expansion of this nonconforming use requires Board of Zoning
Appeals
approval
under
Section
359.01; a gravel parking area is proposed contrary to the requirement in
Section 349.07 that the area be hardsurfaced and properly graded for
drainage, with wheel or bumper
guards required; and the size of
parking spaces is not shown whereas Section 325.03 requires that each
parking space be a minimum of 180
square feet. (Filed 1-9-12)
Calendar No. 12-6 2186 Brookpark
Road (Ward 13)
Carrie Damico, tenant, and Lorain
Real
Estate
Corporation,
owner,
appeal to display a 20-foot diameter
balloon as a roof sign for 14 days
in a B3 Semi-Industry District on the
northwest corner of Brookpark Road
and Broadview Road; contrary to
the regulations of Section 327.02(c),
which states that there shall be no
change or substitution in the use of
any existing building or premises
and no extension of any existing
use, nor shall any premises be occupied for any new use, until a certificate
of
occupancy
has
been
issued. (Filed 1-1-12)

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
Resolution No. 23-12.
By Director Nichols.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 727-11, passed June 6,
2011, effective June 13, 2011, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell Cityowned property no longer needed for
public use consisting of Permanent
Parcel Nos. 131-17-003 and 131-17-004
(the
“Property”),
as
further
described in the ordinance, to the
Greater
Cleveland
Community
Improvement
Corporation,
or
its
designee, for purposes of the Cuyahoga Valley Industrial Center site
development.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 727-11
authorizes the Mayor to execute, on
behalf of the City, and the Director
of Law to prepare, the Official Deed
necessary to convey the Property
described in the Ordinance.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 727-11
authorizes the Director of Economic
Development to enter into an agreement to memorialize the terms of
conveyance; now, therefore,

____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have

60

Calendar No. 12-7: 1977 West 54th
Street (Ward 15)
Homecut LLC (Leonard Cuturic),
owner, appeals to erect 125 feet of
6-foot high wood fencing on a 30' x
134' irregularly shaped parcel in a
B1 Two-Family District, contrary to
the provisions of Section 358.06(b),
which requires that the finished or
more decorative side of a fence shall
face outward toward the adjoining
property or the street. (Filed 1-13-12)
Calendar No. 12-8: 4979 West 130th
Street (Ward 18)
Windfall Group USA, owner, and
Direct Import Home Décor, tenant,
appeal to relocate an existing 220square foot, 75-foot high doublefaced illuminated pole sign identifying Direct Import Home Décor on
a property east of West 130th Street,
north of Brookpark Road and south
of I-480 in an A3 General Industry
District; such sign to be located 8
feet from an interior property line,
contrary to the provision of Section
350.09(d) that requires a freeway

The City Record

January 25, 2012
interchange sign to be located at
least 25 feet from an interior property line. (Filed 1-17-12)
Calendar No. 12-9 1019 Pelton Court
(Ward 3)
Cleveland Bricks (Jason Hagler),
owner, appeals to erect a 17'3" x
33'7" one-story frame single-family
residence addition and an 18' x 20'
one-story attached garage on an
approximately 40-foot wide and 80-90
feet deep irregularly shaped parcel
in a B1 Multi-Family District; contrary to the provisions of Section
355.04(a), which require that the
maximum gross floor area be no
greater than 50% of the lot area or
1,734 square feet in this case, compared to a proposed 1,960 square
feet; and contrary to the provisions
Section
357.08(b)(1),
which
of
requires a minimum 20-foot rear
yard compared to the proposed 3
feet; contrary to the provisions of
Section
357.09(b)(2)A,
which
requires a building to be located at
least 10 feet from a main building
on an adjoining lot in a Residence
District, compared to the proposed 3
feet; contrary to the provision of
Section
357.09(b)(2)B,
which
requires a minimum 3-foot interior
side yard compared to a proposed 1foot interior side yard, and requires
that the total width of side yards be
not less than 10 feet compared to a
proposed 4 feet; and subject to the
provisions of Section 359.01, which
requires Board of Zoning Appeals
approval for the expansion of an
existing
nonconforming
building.
(Filed 1-17-12)
Calendar No. 12-10 863 East 140th
Street (Ward 10)
Khalid Hassan, owner, appeals to
expand the use of an existing food
manufacturing facility located in a
C2 General Retail Business District
through construction of a new 7,815square foot building; such use being
first permitted in a Semi-Industry
District and an expansion of this
nonconforming use requires Board
of Zoning Appeals approval under
Section 359.01; contrary to the provisions of Section 349.04 regarding
the provision of off-street parking;
and contrary to the provisions of
Sections 352.10 and 352.11, which
require a 10-foot wide landscape
transition strip between the proposed use and the adjacent Residential District; and contrary to the
requirement of Section 357.07(a) for
a front yard setback of 10 feet compared to a proposed setback of 9'3". (Filed 1-18-12)
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2012
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
23, 2012, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 11-237: 1192 West 101st
Street
The 1192 Group Partnership LLC,
owner, appealed for a change of use

15

from a factory, warehouse, to a private club, assembly hall, in an existing building located on a 136.25' x
329.67' lot in a B3 General Industry
District.
Calendar No. 11-238: 2261 West 28th
Street
Evelyn Jackson, owner, appealed
to enclose an existing 9' x 27' wooden, open front porch.
Calendar No. 11-227: 2500 Denison
Avenue
Corporation,
owner,
McDonald’s
appealed to install 2 drive through
lanes, a drive island and 1 additional 8' x 5.3' single faced menu
board to an existing restaurant
located on a corner lot in a C3/2
Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 11-229: 2639 East 87th
Street
Jerry Roman and Anthony Peacock appeal to establish use as
motor vehicle major repair, which
includes minor repairs and auto
body repairs, in a one-story building
located on an 85.07' x 60' lot in a
C2 General Retail Business District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 11-239: 789 East 99th
Street
James and Betty Jefferson, owners, and BeNita Martinez, tenant,
appealed to establish use as a Type
A day care within the first floor of
an existing two family residence on
a 40' x 91.95' lot in a B1 Two-Family District.
The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

Calendar No. 11-240: 3255 West 58th
Street
Robert Cisar, owner, appealed to
use a building as a garage for storage as the sole, primary use of a 38'
x 122.58' parcel located in a B1 TwoFamily District.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

The following request for an affirmation was heard by the Board on
January 23, 2012 and was approved.
Calendar Nos. 11-53, 11-54: 1393 East
51st Street and 1368 East 52nd
Street
Granting a 30-day extension to
February 20, 2012 to Ohio Technical
College for filing of a plat to consolidate parcels.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
January 18, 2012
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-166-11.
RE: Appeal of Vivian Billups,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 3613 Henry Ct.
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
May 11, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to complete processing the property,
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.
*    *    *

None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
None.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on January 17, 2012 were
adopted and approved on January
23, 2012.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 11-220: 9000 Aetna Road
9000 Aetna LLC and Eric Collins,
owner, appeal to use for storage of
construction equipment and supplies
and an accessory parking area an
acreage parcel in a B3 General
Industry District.
Calendar No. 11-225: 2200 West 28th
Street
Cleveland Metropolitan School District appeals to construct a twostory, 63,530 square foot PK-8 elementary school on acreage located
between West 28th and West 29th
Street in a B1 Two-Family District.

61

Docket A-178-11.
RE: Appeal of Michael M. Stewart,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
13817 Svec Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated January 24,
2011 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require the
Appellant, within the next thirty
(30) days, to obtain all required permits and to grant the Appellant one
hundred eighty (180) days in which
to complete abatement of all violations, pending the report from the
inspectors to the feasibility of that;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Maschke.

The City Record

16
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.
*    *    *
Docket A-180-11.
RE: Appeal of James J. Green,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
9407 Steinway Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated July 24, 2008 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued, the Appellant is not present
for the hearing, no work has been
done, and existing permits have
been Voided, the appeal is Denied;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saab
and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.
Not Voting: Mr. Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-181-11.
RE: Appeal of Perry’s Investments, LLC, Owner of the One
Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story Frame Property,
located on the premises known as
12700 Benwood Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated April 14, 2011,
and from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated February 3, 2011 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to extend the time
required for abatement of the violations to February 1, 2012, noting
that the property has been donated
to the Land Bank, including a donation to assist in remediation. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.
*    *    *
Docket A-182-11.
RE: Appeal of ZTB Holdings LLC,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
8810 Denison Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated May 9, 2011 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require Appellant to obtain all required permits
to complete the project within the
next seven (7) days; remove the

debris within the next fourteen (14)
days and maintain the grounds
debris free, and to grant the Appellant one hundred twenty (120) days
in which to complete abatement of
all violations on the property. The
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.
*    *    *
Docket A-187-11.
RE: Appeal of Velma Mainer
(Deceased) C/O Leroy Mainer Jr.,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit SinResidence
Two
&
gle-Family
Story
Frame
Property
One/half
located on the premises known as
Columbia
Avenue
from
a
9103
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated May
13, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued based upon the photographic
evidence, noting that no work has
been done, and that the cars stored
on the property, in their present condition, is illegal and not permitted,
the appeal is Denied; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.
*    *    *
Docket A-188-11.
RE: Appeal of Boulevard Terrace
Apartments, Ltd., Owner of the R-2
Residential – Non-transient; Apartments (Shared Egress) Two Story
Masonry Property located on the
premises known as 10107 Detroit
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated May 11, 2011
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require the
Appellant to obtain building permits
within fourteen (14) days and to
present a construction schedule to
the interested parties, including the
inspector and council person, and to
grant the Appellant until January 1,
2013 in which to complete the construction project; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.

62

January 25, 2012
Docket A-189-11.
RE: Appeal of BMW1234 LLC,
Owner of the S-1 Storage – Moderate
Hazard
(Combustibles)
One
&
One/half Story Masonry Property
located on the premises known as
4007 Detroit Avenue from a CONORDER
—
MAIN
DEMNATION
STRUCTURE, dated October 8, 2010
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued based on the photographic
evidence presented, the Appellant is
granted six (6) months in which to
complete abatement of all violations, noting that all permits have
been
obtained;
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.
*    *    *
Docket A-190-11.
RE: Appeal of Hatim Nassir,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Residence
Two
&
Two-Family
Story
Frame
Property
One/half
located on the premises known as
2620 East 115th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated March 22, 2010
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued, that no permits have been
obtained, there is no plan to do the
work and that no work has been
done other than the deconstructive
work on the property, the appeal for
additional time has been Denied; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.
*    *    *
Docket A-191-11.
RE: Appeal of Byron C. Washington, Owner of the One Dwelling Unit
Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 4147 East 59th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated May 18, 2011 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require the
Appellant to obtain all permits within the next thirty (30) days and
complete abatement of all violations
within six (6) months; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required

January 25, 2012
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.
*    *    *
Docket A-192-11.
RE: Appeal of Nick Gory, Owner
of the MXD Mixed Uses – Multiple
Uses
In
One
Building
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
7101 Clark Avenue from a NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
May 19, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation Notice was properly issued
based on the photographic evidence,
that no work has been done and the
Appellant is not present for the
hearing, the appeal for additional
time is Denied; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.
*    *    *
Docket A-195-11.
RE: Appeal of Dawne M. Chilkcutt, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence Two
& One/half Story Frame Property
located on the premises known as
9519 Orleans Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated
May 18, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-195-11 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-196-11.
RE:
Appeal
of
William
and
Kathryn K. Allen, Owners of the
One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence One & One/half Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 4878 West 14th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated May 11, 2011 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-196-11 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.

The City Record
Property located on the premises
known as 3550 East 46th Street from
NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
a
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
May 25, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation
Notice
was
properly
issued, no work has been done and
the Appellant is not present for the
hearing, the appeal for additional
time is Denied; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.

of the One Dwelling Unit SingleFamily Residence Two Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 11525 Kelton Avenue from
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
a
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated March 4,
2011 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant until February 1, 2012 for
abatement of the violations, the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.

*    *    *

*    *    *

Docket A-198-11.
RE: Appeal of John H. Thomas,
Owner of the MXD Mixed Uses –
Multiple Uses In One Building One
Story Masonry Property located on
the premises known as 1138 East
123rd Street from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated May 27, 2011 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-198-11 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.

Docket A-355-11.
RE: Appeal of PNC Bank, Mortgagee of the MXD Mixed Uses –
Multiple Uses In One Building Four
Story Masonry Walls/Wood Floors
Property located on the premises
known as 4049 St. Clair Avenue from
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
a
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated October
13, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued based upon the photographic
evidence presented, and that based
on other evidence presented, PNC is
not the responsible party of the
property; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.

*    *    *
Docket A-200-11.
RE:
Appeal
of
George
Caraman/Caraman Corp., Owner of the
One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence Two Story Frame Property located on the premises known as
1538 West 102nd Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated
October 7, 2010 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued, and to grant the Appellant
thirty (30) days in which to complete abatement of the interior violations and to complete the exterior
violations as soon as possible, maintaining the grounds debris free, the
Appellant is granted ninety (90)
days in which to complete all the
work on the property; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.

*    *    *
*    *    *
Docket A-197-11.
RE: Appeal of David Carte, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two Story Frame

17

Docket A-243-11.
RE: Appeal of Land Assembly for
Neighborhood Development, Owner

63

*    *    *
Docket A-385-11.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland Cavaliers, Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 1 Center
Court
from
an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER, dated December 13, 2011 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance to the area requirement and
permit the sign to be erected as proposed, with the provision that the
requirements of NFPA 701 be complied with by the material, the proof
of that is to be submitted by the
Appellant.
Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.

The City Record

18
Docket A-390-11.
RE: Appeal of The Vietnamese
Buddhist Association of Cleveland,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 4724 West
130th Street from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, dated December 1,
2011 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the variance request, and find that the proposed occupancy of the lower level
will either require a limited area
sprinkler system or a compliant
direct exist to the outside from the
basement area, and that a plan must
be submitted describing either condition. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Absent: Mr.
Gallagher.
*    *    *
Docket A-4-12.
RE: Appeal of Nancy Yuen, Owner
of the R-2 Residential – Non-transient; Apartments (Shared Egress)
Two Story Masonry Walls/Wood
Property
located
on
the
Floors
premises known as 1368 East 40th
from
a
CONDEMNATION
Street
ORDER, dated March 19, 2009 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-4-12 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for February 1, 2012.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-169-11 — Edward Byszewski
A-170-11 — Delon Burrell
A-173-11 — Evergreen Castle
A-174-11 — Dan Andreasik
A-175-11 — Therese A. Fuller
A-176-11 — Yakup Cukurcayir/
Herman D. Thomas
A-177-11 — John Carpenter
A-251-11 — The Glidden House
A-276-11 — Ocie Lee Smith
A-287-11 — Fiduciary Leaders Inc.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley.
Nays: None. No Voting: Mr. Maschke.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
January 4, 2012
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saab, Bradley.
Nays: None. No Voting: Mr. Maschke.
Absent: Mr. Gallagher.

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

January 25, 2012
Port Control, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 597-11, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 6, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012 AT 10:00
A.M. THE DEPARTMENT OF
PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND
INTERNATIONAL
HOPKINS
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVBUILDING,
19451
FIVE
ING
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44135-3193.
January 18, 2012 and January 25, 2012

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
the
following
notice
advertised,
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2012
File No. 5-12 – Browns Stadium 2012
Capital Project, for the Division of
Architecture and Site Development,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 9-12,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
ONLY (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
NO
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED
TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY,
JANUARY 27, 2012 AT 10:00 A.M.
THE
CLEVELAND
BROWNS
STADIUM, 100 ALFRED LERNER WAY, MEET AT THE LOADING DOCK ENTRANCE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.

January 18, 2012 and January 25, 2012

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2012
File No. 4-12 – Landscape Materials
& Supplies, for the Various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as authorized by
Section 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
WEDNESDAY,
FEBRUARY
1,
2012 AT 10:30 A.M. THE CLEVELAND CITY HALL, DIVISION OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
ROOM
128,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.

Monday, January 23, 2012
2:00 p.m.
City
Planning
Committee
&
Finance Committee: Present in Planning: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone. Present in Finance:
Kelley, Vice Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, WestAuthorized
Absence:
brook.
Sweeney, Chair.
2:00 p.m.

*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

File No. 6-12 – Purchase of Federal
Aviation
Administration
Approved Deicing Chemicals (Rebid), for the Various Divisions of

64

Finance Committee: Present in
Finance: Sweeney, Chair; Kelley,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,

The City Record

January 25, 2012
Cleveland, Keane, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.
Tuesday, January 24, 2012
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller, Pruitt,

Westbrook,
Zone.
Absence: Cimperman.

Authorized

Wednesday, January 25, 2012
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell,
Chair;
Polensek,
Vice
Chair; Brady, Cummins, Dow, Miller,

19
Mitchell, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Cleveland.
1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Conwell,
Cummins,
Dow,
Chair;
Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Notification of acceptance of a grant — $ 1,000.00 (WRAAA) Support The 2012 Medicare
Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA) Beneficiary Outreach and
Assistance Program. (F 86-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Agreements
Sell city-owned property no longer needed for public use — PPNS 118-04-036 Through
118-04-044 — to Superior Technology Partners, LLC, (Ward 07) (O 1685-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Aids
Federal Home Investment Partnerships Act Program, 2012 — Emergency Shelter Grant —
Housing Opportunities For Persons With Aids Program — Year XXXVIII (O 75-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Bellaire Road, 11885, (Ward 17) – Yakup Cukurcayir / Herman D. Thomas, owners — appeal
adopted on 1/18/12 (Doc. A-176-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Benwood Avenue, 12700, (Ward 2) – Perry’s Investments, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
1/18/12 (Doc. A-181-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Center Court, 1, (Ward 3) – Cleveland Cavaliers, owner — appeal resolved on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-385-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Avenue, 7101, (Ward 15) – Nick Gory, owner — appeal resolved on 1/18/12 (Doc. A-192-11)
Columbia Avenue, 9103, (Ward 8) – Velma Mainer (deceased) c/o Leroy Mainer, Jr., owner —
appeal resolved on 1/18/12 (Doc. A-187-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cornelia Avenue, 7416, (Ward 7) – John Carpenter, owner — appeal adopted on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-177-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue, 8810, (Ward 16) – ZTB Holdings, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-182-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 10107, (Ward 17) – Boulevard Terrace Apartments, Ltd., owner —
appeal resolved on 1/18/12 (Doc. A-188-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 4007, (Ward 15) – BMW1234, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-189-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 115th Street, 2620, (Ward 6) – Hatim Nassir, owner — appeal resolved on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-190-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd Street, 1138, (Ward 10) – John H. Thomas, owner — appeal withdrawn on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-198-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 129th Street, 847, (Ward 10) – Evergreen Castle, owner — appeal adopted on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-173-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 133rd Street, 3517, (Ward 4) – Ocie Lee Smith, owner — appeal adopted on
1/18/12 (Doc. A-276-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 149th Street, 3360, (Ward 1) – Delon Burrell, owner — appeal adopted on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-170-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 40th Street, 1368, (Ward 8) – Nancy Yuen, owner — appeal postponed to 2/1/12
on 1/18/12 (Doc. A-4-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 59th Street, 4147, (Ward 12) – Byron C. Washington, owner — appeal resolved on
1/18/12 (Doc. A-191-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st Street, 4241, (Ward 12) – Edward Byszewski, owner — appeal adopted on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-169-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ford Drive, 1901, (Ward 9) – The Glidden House, owner — appeal adopted on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-251-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Henry Court, 3613, (Ward 12) – Vivian Billups, owner — appeal resolved on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-166-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

65

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61

The City Record

20

Kelton Avenue, 11525, (Ward 9) – Land Assembly of Neighborhood Development, owner —
appeal resolved on 1/18/12 (Doc. A-243-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nottingham Road, 19306, (Ward 11) – Fiduciary Leaders, Inc., owner — appeal adopted on
1/18/12 (Doc. A-287-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oliver Road, 10922, (Ward 17) – Dan Andreasik, owner — appeal adopted on
1/18/12 (Doc. A-174-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Orleans Avenue, 9519, (Ward 5) – Dawne M. Chilkcutt, owner — appeal withdrawn on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-195-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 4049, (Ward 3) – PNC Bank, mortgagee — appeal resolved on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-355-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Steinway Avenue, 9407, (Ward 4) – James J. Green, owner — appeal resolved on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-180-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Svec Avenue, 13817, (Ward 4) – Michael M. Stewart, owner — appeal resolved on
1/18/12 (Doc. A-178-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 102nd Street, 1538, (Ward 17) – George Caraman / Caraman Corp., owner — appeal
resolved on 1/18/12 (Doc. A-200-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 4724, (Ward 18) – The Vietnamese Buddhist Association of Cleveland,
owner — appeal resolved on 1/18/12 (Doc. A-390-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 14th Street, 4878, (Ward 13) – William and Kathryn K. Allen, owner —
appeal withdrawn on 1/18/12 (Doc. A-196-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 46th Street, 3550, (Ward 12) – David Carte, owner — appeal resolved on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-197-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 87th Street, 1374, (Ward 16) – Therese A. Fuller, owner — appeal adopted on 1/18/12
(Doc. A-175-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

January 25, 2012
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Fulton Road reconstruction (Denison Ave. to Clark Ave.) — approve subcontractor —
BOC Res. 543-11, 567-11 — Division of Engineering and Construction (BOC Res. 19-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

Board of Control — City of Beachwood
Sell parcels — MDA pursuant to Ord. 2197-88, 1458-90 and 1166-96 to Chagrin Highlands,
Ltd. (BOC Res. 22-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 115th Street, 713 (Ward 9) — PPN 110-03-093 — James L. Lewis, Jr. (BOC Res. 20-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
West 38th Street (Ward 15) — PPN 007-07-012 — Decebal B. Epuran (BOC Res. 21-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Fulton Road reconstruction (Denison Ave. to Clark Ave.) — approve subcontractor —
BOC Res. 543-11, 567-11 — Office of Capital Projects (BOC Res. 19-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

Board of Control — Finance Department
Sell parcels for Cuyahoga Valley Industrial Center site development — PPN 131-17-003/004 —
per Ord. 727-11 to Greater Cleveland Community Improvement Corporation (BOC Res. 23-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Sell parcels in City of Beachwood — MDA pursuant to Ord. 2197-88, 1458-90 and 1166-96 to
Chagrin Highlands, Ltd. (BOC Res. 22-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 115th Street, 713 (Ward 9) — PPN 110-03-093 — James L. Lewis, Jr. (BOC Res. 20-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
West 38th Street (Ward 15) — PPN 007-07-012 — Decebal B. Epuran (BOC Res. 21-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

Board of Control — Land Sales
Sell parcels for Cuyahoga Valley Industrial Center site development — PPN 131-17-003/004 —
per Ord. 727-11 to Greater Cleveland Community Improvement Corporation (BOC Res. 23-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Sell parcels in City of Beachwood — MDA pursuant to Ord. 2197-88, 1458-90 and 1166-96 to
Chagrin Highlands, Ltd. (BOC Res. 22-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Parking Management Services — per Ord. 247-11 to Standard Parking Corporation
(BOC Res. 18-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Parking Management Services — per Ord. 247-11 to Standard Parking Corporation — Dept. of
Port Control (BOC Res. 18-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

66

January 25, 2012

The City Record

21

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Fulton Road reconstruction (Denison Ave. to Clark Ave.) — approve subcontractor —
BOC Res. 543-11, 567-11 — Division of Engineering and Construction, Office of
Capital Projects (BOC Res. 19-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sell parcels for Cuyahoga Valley Industrial Center site development — PPN 131-17-003/004 —
per Ord. 727-11 to Greater Cleveland Community Improvement Corporation (BOC Res. 23-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Sell parcels in City of Beachwood — MDA pursuant to Ord. 2197-88, 1458-90 and 1166-96 to
Chagrin Highlands, Ltd. (BOC Res. 22-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Aetna Road, 9000, (Ward 5) – 9000 Aetna LLC and Eric Collins, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 1/23/12 (Cal. 11-220) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Avenue, 2500, (Ward 14) – McDonald’s Corporation, owner — appeal heard on 1/23/12
(Cal. 11-227) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 40th Street, 1192, (Ward 3) – The 1192 Group Partnership, LLC, owner — appeal heard
on 1/23/12 (Cal. 11-237) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 51st Street, 1393, (Ward 8) – Ohio Technical College, Inc., owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 1/23/12 (Cal. 11-53) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 52nd Street, 1368, (Ward 8) – Ohio Technical College, Inc., owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 1/23/12 (Cal. 11-54) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 87th Street, 2639, (Ward 4) – Jerry Roman and Anthony Peacock, owners — appeal heard
on 1/23/12 (Cal. 11-229) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 99th Street, 789, (Ward 8) – James and Betty Jefferson, owners and BeNita Martinez,
tenant — appeal heard on 1/23/12 (Cal. 11-239) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 101st Street, 2161, (Ward 16) – Evelyn Jackson, owner — appeal heard on 1/23/12
(Cal. 11-238) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 28th Street, 2200, (Ward 3) – Cleveland Metropolitan School District, owner — appeal
granted and adopted on 1/23/12 (Cal. 11-225) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 58th Street, 3255, (Ward 15) – Robert Cisar, owner — appeal dismissed on
1/23/12 (Cal. 11-240). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Brookpark Road, 2186, (Ward 13) – Carrie Damico, tenant and Lorain Real Estate
Corporation, owner — appeal to be heard on 2/6/12 (Cal. 12-6). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 140th Street, 863, (Ward 10) – Khalid Hassan, owner — appeal to be heard on 2/6/12
(Cal. 12-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 3395, (Ward 5) – Darrell Wilborn, owner — appeal to be heard on 2/6/12
(Cal. 12-4). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pelton Court, 1019, (Ward 3) – Cleveland Bricks (Jason Hagler), owner — appeal to
be heard on 2/6/12 (Cal. 12-9). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th Street, 4979, (Ward 18) – Windfall Group USA, owner and Direct
Import Home Decor, tenant — appeal to be heard on 2/6/12 (Cal. 12-8) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 54th Street, 1977, (Ward 15) – Homecut, LLC (Leonard Cuturic), owner — appeal to be
heard on 2/6/12 (Cal. 12-7) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

Building and Housing Department
Vanover, Thomas E. — Oath of Office — Commissioner Of Code Enforcement — Building
And Housing Department (F 91-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Capital Projects
Grant For Public Improvements to League Park — Amend Ord. No. 607-10 (O 67-12) . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 90th St., 2721 — encroach into right-of-way — Pedestrian Bridge and Small Pipe Trestle —
Miceli — Lograsso Development Co. IV LLC, (Ward 04) (O 71-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., — encroach into right-of-way — Light Tower Campus Marker — Cleveland State
University (Ward 08) (O 69-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Perkins Ave., — encroach into right- of- way — Guard House Addition — Dealer Tire, LLC,
(Ward 08) (O 70-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 68th St., — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (R 80-12)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54

City of Cleveland Bids
Cleveland Browns Stadium Capital Projects, 2012 — Department of Public Works — Division
of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 9-12 — bid due February
10, 2012 (advertised 1/18/2012 and 1/25/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Deicing chemicals, FAA-approved (Re-bid) — Department of Port Control — per Ord. 597-11 —
bid due February 8, 2012 (advertised 1/18/2012 and 1/25/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Landscape materials and supplies — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid
due February 8, 2012 (advertised 1/18/2012 and 1/25/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

67

The City Record

22

January 25, 2012

City Planning Commission
Fenn Tower (The National Town and Country Club) — PPN 103-04-008 — Designate as Landmark
(Ward 08) (O 72-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hancock Ave. (East Of West 28th St.) — Change Use, Area Districts (Ward 03) (O 1602-11) . . . . . . .
Morgana Run Phase One — Subdivision & Dedication Plat — East 71st St., East 72nd St., Aetna
Rd., — Proposed Gerome Dr. & Garland Court (Ward 12) (F 92-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tennis Courts At Rockefeller Park — Change Name To “The Judge Jean Murrell Capers Tennis
Courts At Rockefeller Park — Public Works (Ward 08) (O 85-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 68th St., — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects (Ward 15) (R 80-12) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 54

City Record
Cleveland Municipal Court — Requesting Judge Pinkey S. Carr — Added to The Directory of
City Official in The City Record (F 87-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Clerk of Council
Specified Global Changes In The Codified Ordinances (O 81-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Port Control — Lease Agreement — Siegel & Shuster Society — At CHIA for Superman Exhibit
(O 1717-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Cleveland Municipal Court
Requesting Judge Pinkey S. Carr — Added to The Directory of City Official in
The City Record (F 87-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Cleveland State University
Euclid Ave., — encroach into right-of-way — Light Tower Campus Marker — Capital Projects
(Ward 08) (O 69-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Fenn Tower (The National Town and Country Club) — PPN 103-04-008 — Designate as Landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 72-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51

Codified Ordinances
Amend Sect. 670.14 — Armed Security Guards (O 188-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Clerk of Council — Specified Global Changes In The Codified Ordinances (O 81-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55

Communications
Cleveland Municipal Court — Requesting Judge Pinkey S. Carr — Added to The Directory of
City Official in The City Record (F 87-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Community Development
Amend Sections 4, 5, and 9 of Ordinance No. 856-07 — City of Cleveland as Community
Reinvestment Area (O 76-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply & Accept 2012 Garden and Green Space Grant — Develop Gateway Park (O 68-12) . . . . . . .
Econ. Dev. — Amend Contract No. 57841 with Fries & Schuele, Ltd. (O 77-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal Home Investment Partnerships Act Program, 2012 — Emergency Shelter Grant —
Housing Opportunities For Persons With Aids Program — Year XXXVIII (O 75-12) . . . . . . .
Seymour Ave., 3607 & 3601 — PPN 007-20-007 / 008 — Land Reutilization Program — Luis Burgos
Or Caribe Development, LLC. (Ward 14) (O 1648-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 18th St. and Auburn Ave. — PPN 004-07-093 / 094 / 095 / 098 & PPN 104-07-100 — Land
Reutilization Program — Nestle L. J. Minor or Designee (Ward 14) (O 1650-11). . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Community Development Block Grant Program
Federal Home Investment Partnerships Act Program, 2012 — Emergency Shelter Grant —
Housing Opportunities For Persons With Aids Program — Year XXXVIII (O 75-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

Community Reinvestment Area
Amend Sections 4, 5, and 9 of Ordinance No. 856-07 — City of Cleveland as Community
Reinvestment Area (O 76-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

Concession Agreements
Amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1578-11 — For Food and Beverage Service in the Rotunda
(O 79-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54

68

January 25, 2012

The City Record

23

Condolences
Arnold, Betty (R 102-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coleman, Jovan (R 105-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corley, Helen (R 101-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Floyd, Cylestine (R 106-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Frierson, Thomas (Butch) Horace (R 104-12) .
Mone, Sr., Frederick Martin (R 107-12) . . . . . . .
Neal, Jr., Wylie (R 103-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

50
50
50
50
50
50
50

Congratulations
Healey, Michael (R 108-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Misheff, Donald T. (R 109-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Contracts
Comm. Dev. & Econ. Dev. — Amend Contract No. 57841 with Fries & Schuele, Ltd. (O 77-12) . . . . . .
Economic Development — Apply & Accept Clean Ohio Grant — Scranton Averell, Inc., (Ferry
Cap & Set Screw Co.) at 2151 Scranton Rd. — Environmental Assessment and Remediation
(O 78-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — professional service — to evaluate, assess, and remediate Brownfield
Properties (O 6-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise first option to renew Contract No. 69192 with SS&G Financial Services, Inc. —
Division of Assessments & Licenses — Audit Practices & Procedures (O 1-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Asphalt for Runways, Taxiways, Ramps, and Roadways (O 1718-11) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — professional service — Implement the Converged Communications System
Projects (O 73-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51

Easements
Public Works — Cleveland Regional Transit Authority for Market Square on W. 25 St. and
Lorain Ave. (Ward 03) (O 74-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

Economic Development Department
Apply & Accept Clean Ohio Grant — Contracts with Scranton Averell, Inc., (Ferry Cap &
Screw Co.) at 2151 Scranton Rd. — Environmental Assessment and Remediation
(O 78-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Comm. Dev. — Amend Contract No. 57841 with Fries & Schuele, Ltd. (O 77-12) . . . . . . . . . .
Professional service contract to evaluate, assess, and remediate Brownfield Properties
(O 6-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell city-owned property no longer needed for public use — PPNS 118-04-036 Through
118-04-044 — to Superior Technology Partners, LLC, (Ward 07) (O 1685-11). . . . . . . . .

Set
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Encroachments
East 90th St., 2721 — right-of-way — Pedestrian Bridge and Small Pipe Trestle — Miceli —
Lograsso Development Co. IV LLC, — Capital Projects (Ward 04) (O 71-12). . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., — right-of-way — Light Tower Campus Marker — Cleveland State University
Capital Projects (Ward 08) (O 69-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Perkins Ave., — right- of- way — Guard House Addition — Dealer Tire, LLC, — Capital
Projects (Ward 08) (O 70-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Finance Department
Exercise first option to renew Contract No. 69192 with SS&G Financial Services, Inc. —
Division of Assessments & Licenses — Audit Practices & Procedures (O 1-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Grants
Aging Department — Notification of acceptance of a grant — $ 1,000.00 (WRAAA) Support the
2012 Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA) Beneficiary
Outreach and Assistance Program (F 86-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capital Projects — Public Improvements to League Park — Amend Ord. No. 607-10 (O 67-12) . . . . .
Community Development — Apply & Accept 2012 Garden and Green Space Grant — Develop
Gateway Park (O 68-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Apply & Accept Clean Ohio Grant — Contracts with Scranton Averell,
Inc., (Ferry Cap & Set Screw Co.) at 2151 Scranton Rd. — Environmental Assessment
and Remediation (O 78-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal Home Investment Partnerships Act Program, 2012 — Emergency Shelter Grant —
Housing Opportunities For Persons With Aids Program — Year XXXVIII (O 75-12) . . . . . . . .

69

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

The City Record

24

January 25, 2012

Housing
Amend Sections 4, 5, and 9 of Ordinance No. 856-07 — City of Cleveland as Community

Reinvestment Area (O 76-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Federal Home Investment Partnerships Act Program, 2012 — Emergency Shelter Grant —
Housing Opportunities For Persons With Aids Program — Year XXXVIII (O 75-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

Land Reutilization Program
Seymour Ave., 3607 & 3601 — PPN 007-20-007 / 008 — Luis Burgos or Caribe Development, LLC.
(Ward 14) (O 1648-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
West 18th St. and Auburn Ave. — PPN 004-07-093 / 094 / 095 / 098 & PPN 104-07-100 — Nestle
L. J. Minor or Designee (Ward 14) (O 1650-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Landmark Commission
Fenn Tower (The National Town and Country Club) — PPN 103-04-008 — Designate as Landmark —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 72-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51

League Park
Capital Projects — Grant For Public Improvements — Amend Ord. No. 607-10 (O 67-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54

Lease Agreement
Port Control — Siegel & Shuster Society — at CHIA for Superman Exhibit (O 1717-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Leases
Public Works — City Leasing Property at 14550 Lorain Avenue from Pleasant
Valley Enterprises Limited Partnership (O 1684-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Liquor Permits
East 185th St., 770 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 11) (R 83-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 770 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 11) (F 99-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 7500 — transfer of ownership and location (Ward 07) (F 97-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forest Ave., 11201 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1557-11 (Ward 04) (R 82-12)
Lakeside Ave., 1001 (Unit M1 And Patio) — transfer of ownership application (Ward
03) (F 95-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Rd., 16800 — transfer of ownership and location application (Ward 01) (F 93-12) . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 10813 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 09) (F 98-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 19003 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — transfer of ownership application (Ward
11) (F 100-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 1834 — transfer of location application (Ward 03) (F 94-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 1909 — transfer of location application (Ward 3) (F 96-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 47th St., 2165 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 998-11
(Ward 15) (R 84-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

56
50
50
56

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Loans
Comm. Dev. & Econ. Dev. — Amend Contract No. 57841 with Fries & Schuele, Ltd. (O 77-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

Mayor’s Office
Mcgowan, Jenita — Oath of Office — Chief of Sustainability (F 89-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Oath of Office
Margevicius, Alex — Oath of Office — Interim Commission Of Water Department (F 88-12) . . . . .
Mcgowan, Jenita — Oath of Office — Chief Of Sustainability (F 89-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reines, David — Oath of Office — Executive Director Of Workforce Investment Board (F 90-12)
Vanover, Thomas E. — Oath of Office — Commissioner Of Code Enforcement — Building
And Housing Department (F 91-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Plats
Morgana Run Phase One — Subdivision & Dedication Plat — East 71st St., East 72nd St., Aetna
Rd., — Proposed Gerome Dr. & Garland Court (Ward 12) (F 92-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

70

January 25, 2012

The City Record

25

Port Control Department
Contracts — Asphalt for Runways, Taxiways, Ramps, and roadways (O 1718-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Lease Agreement — Siegel & Shuster Society — At CHIA for Superman Exhibit (O 1717-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Professional Service — requirement contracts — Implement The
Converged Communications System Projects (O 73-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51

Professional Services
Economic Development — Contract to Evaluate, Assess, and Remediate Brownfield Properties
(O 6-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise First Option to Renew Contract No. 69192 with SS&G Financial Services, Inc. —
Division of Assessments & Licenses — Audit Practices & Procedures (O 1-12) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Requirement contracts — Implement the Converged Communications System
Projects (O 73-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Works — Manage Gateway East Garage (O 1552-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Public Improvements
Capital Projects — Grant — League Park — Amend Ord. No. 607-10 (O 67-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54

Public Works
Amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1578-11 — Concession agreements for food and beverage
service in the Rotunda (O 79-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City leasing property at 14550 Lorain Avenue from Pleasant Valley Enterprises
Limited Partnership (O 1684-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Granting easement to Cleveland Regional Transit Authority for Market Square on W. 25 St.
and Lorain Ave. (Ward 03) (O 74-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Professional service to manage Gateway East Garage (O 1552-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tennis Courts at Rockefeller Park — Change name to “The Judge Jean Murrell Capers Tennis
Courts at Rockefeller Park — City Planning Commission — Public Works (Ward 08)
(O 85-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Purchases and Supplies Division
Sell City-Owned Property No Longer Needed For Public Use — PPNS 118-04-036 Through
118-04-044 — to Superior Technology Partners, LLC, (Ward 07) (O 1685-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Recognition
Capers, Judge Jean Murrell (R 110-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Diasio, Leonard (R 112-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Vietnamese Community Of Greater Cleveland, Inc. / “Year Of The Dragon” (R 111-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Regional Transit Authority
Public Works — Granting easement to Cleveland Regional Transit Authority for Market Square
on W. 25 St. and Lorain Ave. (Ward 03) (O 74-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

Safety Department
Amend Sect. 670.14 — Armed Security Guards (O 188-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

Street Vacation
West 68th St., — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Capital
Projects (Ward 15) (R 80-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54

Tabled Legislation
Amend Sect. 670.14 — Armed Security Guards (O 188-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

Tax Abatement
Amend Sections 4, 5, and 9 of Ordinance No. 856-07 — City of Cleveland as Community
Reinvestment Area (O 76-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

U.S. Conference Mayors
Community Development — Apply & Accept 2012 Garden and Green Space Grant — Develop
Gateway Park (O 68-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55

Utilities Department
Margevicius, Alex — Oath of Office — Interim Commission of Water Department (F 88-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

71

The City Record

26

January 25, 2012

Ward 01
Miles Rd., 16800 — transfer of ownership and location application — liquor permit (F 93-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Ward 03
Economic Development — Apply & Accept Clean Ohio Grant — Contracts with Scranton Averell,
Inc., (Ferry Cap & Set Screw Co.) at 2151 Scranton Rd. — Environmental Assessment
and Remediation (O 78-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hancock Ave. (East Of West 28th St.) — Change Use, Area Districts — City Planning
Commission (O 1602-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave., 1001 (Unit M1 and Patio) — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit
(F 95-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Works — Granting easement to Cleveland Regional Transit Authority for Market Square
on W. 25 St. and Lorain Ave. (O 74-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 1834 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 94-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 1909 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 96-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Ward 04
East 90th St., 2721 — encroach into right-of-way — Pedestrian Bridge and Small Pipe Trestle —
Miceli — Lograsso Development Co. IV LLC, — Capital Projects (O 71-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forest Ave., 11201 — withdraw objection to issuance — repeal Res. 1557-11 (R 82-12) . . . . . . . . . . .
Frierson, Thomas (Butch) Horace — Condolence (R 104-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neal, Jr., Wylie — Condolence (R 103-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

50
56
50
50

Ward 05
Capers, Judge Jean Murrell — Recognition (R 110-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coleman, Jovan — Condolence (R 105-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development — Apply & Accept 2012 Garden And Green
Gateway Park (O 68-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton, Derrick — Welcome (R 113-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

......................
......................
Space Grant — Develop
......................
......................

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Ward 06
Corley, Helen — Condolence (R 101-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Ward 07
Arnold, Betty — Condolence (R 102-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capital Projects — Grant for Public Improvements to League Park — Amend Ord. No. 607-10
(O 67-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 7500 — transfer of ownership and location — liquor permit (F 97-12). . . . . . . . . . .
Sell city-owned property no longer needed for public use — PPNS 118-04-036 Through
118-04-044 — to Superior Technology Partners, LLC, (O 1685-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Ward 08
Euclid Ave., — encroach into right-of-way — Light Tower Campus Marker — Cleveland State
University — Capital Projects (O 69-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fenn Tower (The National Town and Country Club) — PPN 103-04-008 — Designate as Landmark —
City Planning Commission (O 72-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Floyd, Cylestine — Condolence (R 106-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Perkins Ave., — encroach into right- of- way — Guard House Addition — Dealer Tire, LLC, —
Capital Projects (O 70-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tennis Courts at Rockefeller Park — Change name to “The Judge Jean Murrell Capers Tennis
Courts at Rockefeller Park — City Planning Commission — Public Works (O 85-12) . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 55
. . . . . . . . . . . 51
. . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . 56

Ward 09
St. Clair Ave., 10813 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 98-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Ward 11
East 185th St., 770 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 83-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
East 185th St., 770 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 99-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
St. Clair Ave., 19003 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit
(F 100-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Ward 12
Fulton, Derrick — Welcome (R 113-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Morgana Run Phase One — Subdivision & Dedication Plat — East 71st St., East 72nd St., Aetna
Rd., — Proposed Gerome Dr. & Garland Court (F 92-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

72

January 25, 2012

The City Record

27

Ward 14
Seymour Ave., 3607 & 3601 — PPN 007-20-007 / 008 — Land Reutilization Program — Luis Burgos
or Caribe Development, LLC. (O 1648-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
West 18th St. And Auburn Ave. — PPN 004-07-093 / 094 / 095 / 098 & PPN 104-07-100 — Land
Reutilization Program — Nestle L. J. Minor or Designee (O 1650-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Ward 15
Healey, Michael — Congratulations (R 108-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vietnamese Community Of Greater Cleveland, Inc. / “Year Of The Dragon” — Recognition
(R 111-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 47th St., 2165 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 998-11 —
liquor permit (R 84-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 68th St., — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Capital
Projects (R 80-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54

Ward 18
Diasio, Leonard — Recognition (R 112-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Misheff, Donald T. — Congratulations (R 109-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Ward 19
Mone, Sr., Frederick Martin — Condolence (R 107-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Public Works — City leasing property at 14550 Lorain Avenue from Pleasant
Valley Enterprises Limited Partnership (O 1684-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57

Welcome
Fulton, Derrick — Welcome (R 113-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging
Aging Department — Notification of acceptance of a grant — $ 1,000.00 (WRAAA) Support The
2012 Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA) Beneficiary
Outreach and Assistance Program (F 86-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49

Zoning
Hancock Ave. (East of West 28th St.) — Change Use, Area Districts — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (O 1602-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

73

