The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

April the Twenty-Fifth, Two Thousand and Twelve

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
12
12
14
14
14
14
15
15
17
22
23

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ..................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek.............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli.................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley.................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ...........................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone ....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ..................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady .........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Interim Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Interim Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry, President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President
Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Interim Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry; Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Interim Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Chairman; Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney;
Councilman Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Interim Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan – Courtroom 13A
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2012

Vol. 99

No. 5133

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, APRIL 23, 2012
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

COMMUNICATION

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.

File No. 583-12.
From City of Strongsville — certified copy of Resolution No. 2012-12,
opposing a proposed tax by the City
of
Cleveland
on
hotel
buses.
Received

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Bran catelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 584-12.
Re: #2314371 — D5, D6 Transfer
of Ownership Application — Drop
Bar LLC, 1st floor, basement, and
patio, 1392 West 6th Street. (Ward
3). Received.
File No. 585-12.
Re: #8575105 — C2, C2X Transfer
of Ownership Application — Steves
Deli, LLC, d.b.a. Steves Deli, 1st
floor and basement, 3590 Bosworth
Road. (Ward 17). Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTANCE

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, April 23, 2012
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, the President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Conwell,
Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek, Pruitt, Reed, Sweeney,
Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff,
Chris
Warren,
Chief
of
Regional Development, Monyka S.
Price, Chief of Education, Maureen
R. Harper, Chief of Communications,
Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary,
Jenita McGowan, Chief of Sustainability, Natoya J. Walker Minor,
Chief of Public Affairs, and Interim
Law Director Langhenry, Directors
Withers, Smith, Wasik, Butler, Cox,
Rush,
Rybka,
Southerington,
Nichols, Griffin, Brown, Fumich,
Ambrose, and Teresa Stevenson,
Legislative Affairs.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76
prayer was offered by Pastor John
Coaxum of Glenville S.D.A. Church,
737 East 105th Street, located in
Ward 8. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Zone, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Mitchell.

605

File No. 586-12.
From Director of Public Works —
Division of Architecture and Site
Development
—
Contract
PI201000000018 with Panzica Construction Company for Collinwood
Recreation
Center
Improvements,
(Ward 11). Date of Acceptance:
November 12, 2011. Received.
File No. 587-12.
From Director of Public Works —
Division of Architecture and Site
Development
—
Contract
PI201000000058 with Precision Engineering and Contracting Company
for Cudell Recreation Center Master
Plan — Phase One, (Ward 16). Date
of
Acceptance:
June
18,
2011.
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 588-12—Judge Peter M.
Sikora.
Res. No. 589-12—Helen Hatzgigeorgiou.
Res. No. 590-12—Ida B. Cook Crowder.
Res. No. 591-12—Lindsey Weyland
Carter
Res.
No.
592-12—Rev.
Michael
DeBose, former Ohio State Representative.
Res. No. 593-12—Paul H. George.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 594-12—Patrol
James Traynor.

Officer

The City Record

4
Res. No. 595-12—Marquyce T. Stewart.
Res.
No.
596-12—City
Club
of
Cleveland — 100th Anniversary.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 597-12—Mary Kennedy.
Res. No. 598-12—33rd Annual Tri-C
JazzFest Cleveland.
Res. No. 599-12—Fathers Active In
The Hood (F.A.I.T.H.).
Res.
No.
600-12—10th
Annual
Minority Men’s Health Fair.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 601-12—Damon Taseff.
Res. No. 602-12—Jim Schlecht.
Res. No. 603-12—Tommy LiPuma.
COMMEMORATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 604-12—37th Anniversary
of the Fall of Saigon.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 563-12.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
lease certain space located in the passenger terminal building at Burke
Lakefront Airport to Soluna Air Charter, Inc. for flight planning and as a
place for flight crews to rest until
their scheduled departure time, for a
term of two years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which is
exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Port Control is authorized to lease to Soluna
Air Charter, Inc. (“Lessee”), approximately 238 square feet of space
located in Room 115 A of the passenger terminal building at Burke
Lakefront Airport which is not needed for public use.
Section 2. That the term of the lease
authorized by this ordinance shall
commence on March 15, 2012, and
shall not exceed two years, with two
one-year options to renew, the first of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the space authorized
by this ordinance shall be leased at an
annual rental rate of $3,213.00 which
is payable in monthly installments of
$267.75, at the rate of $13.50 per square
feet, which is determined to be fair
market value, exclusive of utilities.
Section 4. That the lease may authorize the Lessee to make improvements to the leased premises subject

to the approval of appropriate City
agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of Port
Control, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials are
authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect the lease
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 564-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
accept a grant from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for financial assistance for the operation of
the Division of Air Quality; authorizing the director to enter into one or
more purchase contracts for various
services, equipment and supplies;
authorizing the director to enter into
one or more contracts with various
agencies or entities necessary to operate the Division of Air Quality; determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, replacing,
or otherwise improving air monitoring sites and other similar structures
on city-owned and city-leased property; authorizing the director to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts to construct the improvement; and authorizing the director to
employ one or more professional consultants necessary to design the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public
Health
is
authorized
to
accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $3,220,569, and any other
funds that become available during
the grant term, from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for
financial assistance for the operation of the Division of Air Quality
in accordance with the purposes set
forth in the summary; that the
Director of Public Health is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes in the summary for the
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 564-12-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds
in the sum of $393,000 from Fund No.
01-5007-6397 in order to receive the

606

April 25, 2012
grant from the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency, as a pass-through
from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, is approved in all
respects, and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
grant period of the necessary items of
materials, equipment, services, and
supplies needed as described in the
file, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division of
Air Quality, Department of Public
Health. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the grant term may
be taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a delivery
order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or
all of the following items during the
term of the grant: various types of
monitoring
equipment,
OEPArequired equipment and their associated parts, and other materials, equipment, supplies, and services needed to
implement the grant, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis, for the
Division of Air Quality, Department
of Public Health.
Section 6. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of constructing,
rehabilitating, renovating, replacing,
or otherwise improving air monitoring sites and other similar structures
on City-owned and City-leased property (the “Improvement”), for the Division of Air Quality, Department of
Public Health, by one or more contracts duly let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a unit basis for the
Improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the Improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate trade and
each distinct component part of the
Improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate
contract on a unit basis.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of con-

April 25, 2012
sultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the grant.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Health from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Health for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Health, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 9. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative agreements with
other governmental agencies. The
Director of Public Health may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 10. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with and make
payments to one or more various entities or agencies to implement the
grant as described in the file.
Section 11. That the payments and
cost of the contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from the
fund or funds which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance and from the cash match.
Section 12. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 13. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Health
and Human Service, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 565-12.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
Case Western Reserve University for
the Case Western Reserve University
Public Health Partnership.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply

The City Record
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $42,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from Case Western Reserve University to conduct the Case Western
Reserve University Public Health
Partnership; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 565-12-A, is made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 566-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant and HOME funds for administrative expenses of the Department of
Community Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received Community Development Block Grant, Year 38 funds
from the United States Government;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $4,725,700 from Fund No.
14 SF 038 and HOME funds in the
amount of $399,000 from Fund No. 19
SF 660 are appropriated for the
administrative
expenses
of
the
Department of Community Development under the following schedule:
Personnel
$4,744,700
Other
380,000
Section 2. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
expend funds and enter into contracts
for reimbursement of non-profit subrecipients for the cost of audit and
other professional services.
Section 3. That the costs of the contracts authorized in this ordinance
shall be paid from Fund No. 14 SF 038
and Fund No. 19 SF 660.

607

5
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 567-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant funds for expenses for the
Demolition Program and emergency
contracts under the Board-up Program; authorizing the Director of
Building and Housing to enter into
one or more contracts with various
agencies to implement these programs; and authorizing the purchase
by one or more requirement contracts
for the items of labor and materials
necessary to implement the Board-up
Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $845,000 from Fund Nos.
14 SF 038, RQS 8006-RL 2012-0057,
are appropriated for costs of the
Department of Building and Housing associated with conducting the
Demolition and Board-up Programs
incurred in Fund 19 following the
appropriate federal regulations in
conjunction with the Community
Development Block Grant Program.
Section 2. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
with various non-profit and for-profit
agencies and entities for services necessary to implement the Demolition
Program and emergency contracts
under the Board-up Program.
Section 3. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a
one or two year period for the items of
labor and materials necessary to
implement the Board-up Program, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Building
and Housing. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term. The Director of Building
and Housing is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance, a

6
financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Building and
Housing by comparing the bids
received for both terms.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a delivery
order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 5. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Director of Building and Housing and the
Director of Community Development
shall enter into a memorandum of
understanding for this program.
Section 6. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to accept monies in repayment under
the program and to utilize the repayments and other program income in a
revolving fund for making additional
expenditures under this program, and
the funds are appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 7. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to collect from persons or entities
from whom the City is collecting
demolition costs an amount equal to
any amount spent for services related
to collection of demolition cost, such
as title searches, credit bureau
reports, and document filing fees.
Any funds collected shall be deposited into Fund No. 14.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Building and Housing,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
Ord. No. 568-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant funds for expenses of the
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) and the CHORE Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 38, from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of Two Hundred Seventy
Thousand Dollars ($270,000) from
Fund No. 14 SF 038, RQS 8006RL2012-0061, are appropriated for
costs of the Department of Aging
incurred in Fund 19 associated with
conducting the Senior Homeowners
Assistance Program (“SHAP”) and
the CHORE Program in conjunction
with the Community Development
Block Grant Program.

The City Record
Section 2. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Director of Aging and the Director of Community Development shall enter into
a memorandum of understanding for
this program.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Aging, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 569-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into or amend contracts with various social service
agencies, community development or
local development corporations and
private for profit entities; to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with various City of
Cleveland departments to implement
the City’s community development
programs; and to expend funds for the
operation of programs administered
by the Department of Community
Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant (“CDBG”), Year 38
from the United States Government;
and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has approved the Year
38 Community Development Block
Grant Plan which committed funds
to Neighborhood Development Activities (“NDA”), which are CDBG eligible activities proposed by the various Council members; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend contracts with various social service agencies, community development or local development corporations, private for-profit
entities, State of Ohio, Cuyahoga
County,
Cuyahoga
Metropolitan
Housing
Authority,
Cleveland
Municipal School District, Regional
Transit Authority, Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District, Cleveland
Metroparks, and such other governmental entities as defined under the
Ohio Revised Code to implement
activities and programs that are eligible under the Community Development Block Grant CDBG Program
and are consistent with the City’s
Community Development objectives
and policies.
Section 2. That the Director of Community Development, after receiving
the approval stated in Section 4
below, is authorized to enter into or
amend memorandums of understanding with various City departments to
implement activities and programs
that are eligible under the CDBG Pro-

608

April 25, 2012
gram and are consistent with the
City’s Community Development objectives and policies.
Section 3. That the Director of Community Development, after receiving
the approval stated in Section 4
below, is authorized to expend NDA
funds for any CDBG eligible Programs administered by the Department of Community Development
including entering into contract with
rehabilitation service providers, tenants, homeowners, and entities providing services necessary to process
loans and grants to implement the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs, Paint Refund Program and
other programs administered by the
Department of Community Development.
Section 4. That prior to entering
into or amending those contracts or
memorandums of understanding, or
expending any funds, the Director of
Community
Development
shall
receive written approval from the
Council member whose ward line item
is to fund the activity or program, provided that the amount for such activity or program does not exceed the
amount allocated for the Council
member’s ward pursuant to the relevant Community Development Block
Grant plan.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts, memorandums of understanding and expenditures for the programs administered by the Department of Community Development
shall not exceed $7,600,000.00 and any
prior years NDA balances and shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 14 SF 036, 14 SF
037 and 14 SF 038.
Section 6. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into or
amend contracts with the entities
administering the NDA program that
generated program income in an
amount not to exceed that generated
program income and to expend funds
for the programs administered by the
Department of Community Development that generated program income
in an amount not to exceed that generated program income all to be paid
from the revolving fund in Fund 14.
Section 7. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes naming the City of Cleveland as payee,
and mortgages, naming the City of
Cleveland as mortgagee, and any
other security instrument executed to
evidence and secure repayment of
loans made under this program.
Section 8. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into forbearance agreements
with any recipient of a validly existing loan administered by the City,
and to charge and accept fees and to
expend such fees to cover costs
incurred in the preparation of loan
documents, closing, and servicing
costs. Such fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 14.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

April 25, 2012
Ord. No. 570-12.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the purchase, lease
or lease to purchase by requirements
contract of various types of vehicles
and apparatus for various Divisions
in the Departments of Public Works
and Public Safety, among others.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is hereby authorized
and directed to make a written
requirements contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for the period
of one year for the necessary items
of various types of vehicles and
apparatus described in the Vehicle
List placed in File No. 570-12-A, or
such other vehicle or apparatus in
substitution
thereof
as
may
be
approved by the Directors of Public
Works and Finance as replacement
vehicles or apparatus, in the estimated sum of $6,477,400, to be purchased, leased or leased to purchase
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
various Divisions in the Departments of Public Works and Public
Safety, among others. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for a requirements contract for the
entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract
or contracts shall be charged against
the proper appropriation accounts
and the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of any purchase or
procurement under the contract, each
of which purchases or procurement
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a delivery order against the
contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the City may enter
into a lease-purchase arrangement
for the vehicles and apparatus with a
bank, leasing company or any other
organization that is not the manufacturer or vendor of the vehicles or
apparatus that submitted a bid for the
sale, lease or lease to purchase
described in Section 1 of this ordinance, provided that: (I) the Director
of Finance determines that it is in the
best interest of the City to enter into
that lease-purchase arrangement,
(II) the maximum term of any leasepurchase arrangement does not
exceed ten (10) years, (III) the aggregate principal obligation of the City
under the lease-purchase arrangement does not exceed $6,900,000, (IV)
if the lease-purchase arrangement
provides that the lease payments are
to have a principal component and an
interest component, the maximum
interest rate for the interest component does not exceed seven percent
(7%) per annum, (V) the obligations
of the City under that lease-purchase

The City Record
arrangement for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2012 are subject to annual appropriations being
made by the City sufficient to pay the
lease payments and to meet the other
obligations of the City under that
lease-purchase arrangement in each
of these fiscal years, and (VI) the
obligations of the City thereunder for
the current fiscal year do not exceed
$660,000, which amount is hereby
appropriated for that purpose. The
Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to sign and deliver, for and
on behalf of the City and in the Director’s official capacity, such written
agreements, certificates and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate in order to provide for that
lease-purchase arrangement under
the terms and conditions authorized
herein and containing such additional terms and conditions as are acceptable to the Director of Finance and
the Director of Law. Those agreements may include a lease-purchase
agreement, an escrow agreement for
the deposit by the lessor of the purchase price of the vehicles and apparatus, acceptance certificates evidencing the City’s acceptance of the
vehicles from the vendors, and certificates as to insurance, tax compliance
and related matters necessary to
carry out the transaction. The leasepurchase arrangement may provide
that the lease payments are to have a
principal component and an interest
component and that the interest component is to be excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes. In that event, the Director of
Finance and other City officials, as
appropriate,
are
authorized
to
covenant on behalf of the City that
(A) the City will use and will restrict
the use of the vehicles and apparatus
leased by the City under the lease-purchase agreement and will use, and
will restrict the investment of, any
proceeds of the lease-purchase agreement in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
the lease-purchase agreement will
not constitute a private activity bond,
an arbitrage bond or a hedge bond
under the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the “Code”), or be
treated other than as an obligation to
which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, and (B) the City will take or
cause to be taken such actions that
may be required of it for the interest
component of the lease payments to
be and to remain excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes and the City will not take or authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion. In the event that the City enters
into such a lease-purchase arrangement, the Director of Public Works
may assign to the lessor under the
lease-purchase arrangement, or the
lessor’s designee, the rights of the
City under the contracts for purchase
of the vehicles and apparatus authorized in Section 1 of this ordinance.
The Director of Law, Clerk of Council
and other appropriate officials of the
City are authorized to sign and deliver any documents, certificates and
other instruments as the Director of
Law determines are necessary and
appropriate to carry out the transactions authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That it is hereby found
and determined that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance where adopted in open

609

7
meetings of this Council, and any of
its committees that resulted in such
formal action were in meetings open
to the public in compliance with the
law.
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 571-12.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of mobile data
computers, equipment, and accessories, including maintenance and
installation, as needed, for the Divisions of Fire and Emergency Medical
Service, Department of Public Safety,
for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a two-year period of the necessary
items of mobile data computers,
equipment, and accessories, including maintenance and installation, as
needed, in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Divisions of
Fire and Emergency Medical Service, Department of Public Safety.
Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the sale of 2012 general obligation
bonds authorized by Ordinance No.
271-12, passed April 2, 2012, if the City
sells such bonds, and shall also be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director of
Finance shall certify the amount of
the initial purchase, which purchase,
together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies

The City Record

8
under a delivery order against the
contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.

Ord. No. 572-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant
funds
for
administrative
expenses of the Code Enforcement
Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 38 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Community Development Block Grant funds in the
amount of $419,000, from Fund No.
14 SF 038, RQS 8006 RL 2012-0059,
are appropriated for the reimbursement of administrative expenses of

April 25, 2012
the Code Enforcement Program following the appropriate federal regulations for the Department of
Building and Housing, in conjunction with the Community Development Block Grant Program.
Section 2. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the Director of Building and Housing and the
Director of Community Development
shall enter into a memorandum of
understanding for this program.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 573-12.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance changing the Use and Area Districts of lands located on the southwest corner of Union Avenue and E.
117th Street to a General Retail Business District and a ‘C’ Area District (Map Change No. 2392, Sheet Number 10).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Union Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of E. 117th Street
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 117th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
southerly line of Sublot Number 217 in the Union-Rice Subdivision shown on the Recorded Plat in Volume 47, Page 24 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said southerly line and continuing along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of E. 116th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of E. 116th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Union Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Union Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of E. 117th Street;
and as identified on the attached map is changed to a General Retail Business District, and a ‘C’ Area District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2392,
Sheet No. 10 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

610

April 25, 2012
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 574-12.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to make payment using the City credit card for
continued use of the domain name for
Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Notwithstanding any
provisions of the Codified Ordinances to the contrary, the Clerk of
Council is authorized to make payment to using the City credit card
in an amount up to $500.00 for continued use of the domain name for
Cleveland City Council.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 575-12.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
one or more summer internship agreements with various individuals to provide assistance to the Office of the
Clerk and the members of Cleveland
City Council in any and all matters
related to official Council business.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into one or
more summer internship agreements
with various individuals to provide
assistance to the Office of the Clerk
and the members of Cleveland City
Council in any and all matters related to official Council business, as
may be directed by the Clerk or her
designees. The agreements may be
for terms of any number of weeks
starting on or after May 1st and
ending on or before August 31st.
The individuals shall be paid on an
hourly basis in an amount not to
exceed 10.00 per hour and shall be
certified from fund number 01, subfund 001, department 0101, object
6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.

The City Record
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 576-12.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Public Works to enter into an agreement with the E.M.S. Rams Youth
Development Group, Inc. for the
Rams Youth Football and Cheerleading Sports Program through the use
of Ward 7 Neighborhood Capital
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Public Works be
authorized to enter into an agreement with the E.M.S. Rams Youth
Football and Cheerleading Sports
Program for the public purpose of
providing
organized
recreational
sports activities to city of Cleveland
youth through the use of Ward 7
Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 577-12.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Reed and Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Economic Development to enter into
an agreement with the EL Hasa Temple No. 28 Shrine Temple owned by Mr.
William Strawbridge for building
renovations and interior improvements through the use of Ward(s) 5, 2
and 6 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement with the El Hasa Temple
No. 28 Shrine Temple owned by Mr.
William Strawbridge located at 1004
Union Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio for
the public purpose of exterior build-

611

9
ing
renovations
and
interior
improvements for economic development and new job creation in the
city of Cleveland through the use of
Ward(s) 5, 2 and 6 Neighborhood
Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $3,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 578-12.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to the
Progressive Street Club to hang 32
flags from the intersection of East
Boulevard and Martin Luther King,
Jr. Drive going north to Farrington
Avenue, for the period from April 24,
2012 to May 25, 2012, inclusive, publicizing the American flag for peace.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Capital Projects is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Progressive
Street Club to install, maintain and
remove 32 flags from the intersection of East Boulevard and Martin
Luther King, Jr. Drive going north
to Farrington Avenue, for the period from August 25, 2011 to September 24, 2011, inclusive. Said banner
shall be approved by the Director of
Capital Projects, in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a flag
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed
or permitted on said flag and said
flag shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.

The City Record

10
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 579-12.
By Council Members Reed, Brancatelli, Polensek, J. Johnson, Zone
and Mitchell.
An emergency resolution supporting the U.S. Department of Transportation’s declaration of April as
national Distracted Driving Awareness Month.
Whereas, the U.S. Department of
Transportation has declared April
national Distracted Driving Awareness Month, continuing Secretary
Ray LaHood’s push to enact laws
banning texting and hand-held cell
phone use while driving; and
Whereas, according to the Department of Transportation’s website,
Distraction.gov, using a cell phone
while driving delays the driver’s
reaction time as much as having a
blood alcohol concentration of .08,
the legal limit for drunk driving;
and
Whereas, drivers who use handheld devices are four times more
likely to get into a crash serious
enough to cause injury, and texting
drivers are 23 times more likely to
be involved in a crash, according to
the Department of Transportation;
and
Whereas, during a two-week period of stepped up law enforcement,
police
in
Hartford,
Connecticut
wrote approximately 4,956 tickets
and Syracuse, New York police
issued 4,446 tickets for violations
involving talking or texting on cell
phones; and
Whereas, as a result of effective
law enforcement and public-service
announcements,
hand-held
cell
phone use dropped 56 percent in
Hartford and 38 percent in Syracuse,
and texting while driving decreased
by 68 percent in Hartford and 42
percent in Syracuse; and
Whereas, 37 states across the
country have enacted laws banning
texting and/or hand-held cell phone
use while driving; and
Whereas, distracted driving led to
at least 31,000 accidents and automobile crashes in the state of Ohio
from 2009 to 2011, and approximately one out of four of those collisions
took place in Cuyahoga County,
according to information by the
State Highway Patrol; and
Whereas, a recently released State
Highway Patrol analysis of crash
reports linked 74 fatal automobile
crashes over a three year period to
distracted driving; and
Whereas, Cuyahoga County led
the state of Ohio with 7,087 distracted driving crashes, which is
more than the combined total from
Franklin, Hamilton and Lucas counties, including major metropolitan
areas of Columbus, Cincinnati and
Toledo; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,

Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the U.S. Department of Transportation’s declaration of April as
national Distracted Driving Awareness Month.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to U.S. Department of
Transportation
Secretary
Ray
LaHood.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 580-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Westbrook, Dow, Brady, Mitchell, J.
Johnson, Cimperman, Conwell, Cummins, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed, Zone
and Sweeney.
An emergency resolution urging
the U.S. House of Representatives to
support the passage of H.R 4210 the
Restore Our Neighborhoods Act of
2012,
which
will
establish
$4,000,000,000 in new funding through
bonding to take on significant residential and commercial structure
demolition projects in urban areas.
Whereas, vacant, uninhabitable,
ravaged properties often become a
breeding ground for crime and fires,
and
require
a
disproportionate
amount of government maintenance,
from securing properties against
criminal activity to removal of
garbage and rodents to demolition,
all at a cost to taxpayers; and
Whereas, vacant, uninhabitable,
ravaged properties reduce city tax
revenue in three ways: they are
often tax delinquent; their low value
means they generate little in taxes;
and they depress property values
across an entire neighborhood; and
Whereas, the citizens who live in
a neighborhood with many vacant
and
abandoned
properties
have
great difficulty obtaining homeowner’s insurance, mortgages and loans
for home improvements; and
Whereas,
vacant
properties
degrade and devalue the quality of
life for remaining residents, isolating and weakening the neighborhood, and increasing the likelihood
that property values will continue to
decline and further abandonment
will set in; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has demolished 6,000 vacant building since 2006 at a cost of approximately $42,000,000; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
still
has
approximately
15,000
vacant structures and has limited
financial capacity to fund additional demolition at that scale; and
Whereas, H.R. 4210 will create
National Urban Demolition Bonds,
which will provide $4 billion for
states and establish land banks to
issue 30-year demolition bonds; and

612

April 25, 2012
Whereas, those states which have
been highly impacted by foreclosed
and abandoned homes will also benefit from the passage of H.R. 4210;
and
Whereas, the H.R. 4210 will allow
for more flexibility than the NeighStabilization
Program
borhood
(NSP), and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Urging the U.S. House
of Representatives to support the
passage of H.R 4210, the Restore
Our Neighborhoods Act of 2012,
which will establish $4,000,000,000 in
new funding through bonding to
take on significant residential and
commercial structure demolition projects in urban areas.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to Barack Obama,
President of the United States, John
Boehner, Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives, Marcia Fudge, Congresswoman, Steven LaTourette, Congressman, Marcy Kaptur, Congresswoman, Dennis Kucinich, Congressman, John Kasich, the Governor of
the State of Ohio, Frank G. Jackson,
Mayor, City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 581-12.
By Council Member Cimperman
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
at 75 Public Square, Unit 101 and
repealing Resolution No. 1166-11,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 75 Public Square, Unit 101
by Resolution No. 1166-11 adopted by
the Council on August 17, 2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Prime 75, inc., 75 Public Square,
Unit 101, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 7085792 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1166-11, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.

April 25, 2012
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 582-12.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit at 16800 Miles Road
and repealing Resolution No. 218-12,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to Sipp & Chat, Inc., 16800 Miles
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent Number 8194664 by Resolution
No. 218-12 adopted by the Council on
February 27, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of liquor license and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Sipp & Chatt, Inc., 16800 Miles
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent Number 8194664 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 218-12, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCE
Ord. No. 550-12.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An ordinance authorizing the
amendment and extension of the franchise with Cleveland Thermal, LLC
for the transmission and supply of
steam and water for heating, cooling
and power purposes.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Legislation, Finance.

The City Record
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 243-12.
By
Council
Members
Brady,
Polensek, Westbrook, Mitchell, Cummins and J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 623.10 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1020-76,
passed June 14, 1976, relating to spray
painting property.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Legislation, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
623.10(b)(2), line 7 and 8, strike “No
part of this sentence shall, in any case
whatsoever be suspended or otherwise reduced.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 253-12.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with
Youth Opportunities Unlimited for
the administration, implementation,
and management of the 2012 Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 270-12.
By Council Members Conwell,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 621.10 and 621.11 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1414-86, passed November 3, 1986 and
Ordinance No. 1020-76, passed June 14,
1976, relating to telecommunications
harassment
and
threatening
or
harassing telecommunications.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 398-12.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Sections 1, 2, 4, and 6 of
Ordinance No. 812-10, passed July 14,
2010, relating to the 2009 Port Security
Grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

613

11
Ord. No. 403-12.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of cremation
services for indigent dead, for the
Division of Health, Department of
Public Health, for a term of two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In the title, at the end, strike the
period and insert “, with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Health.”.
2. In Section 1, line 3, after “two
years” insert ““, with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Public Health.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 409-12.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more contracts with
SourceLink, Ohio LLC to provide various services relating to the customer
care and billing system for the Divisions of Water and Cleveland Public
Power, for a period up two years, with
two one-year options to renew, the
first of which requires additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 454-12.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
United States Department of Homeland Security for the FY 2010 Assistance to Firefighters Grant – Fire Prevention & Safety Program; and to
enter into various written standard
purchase and requirement contracts
needed for the purchase and installation of the Knox Sentralock Master
Key Retention System in emergency
suppression vehicles within the Division of Fire, including labor.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Legislation, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 7 and 8 in
their entirety and insert “one or more
requirement contracts without competitive bidding with the Knox Company for the purchase”.
2. Strike Section 4 in its entirety
and insert the following:
“Section 4. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
the Knox Company. Therefore, the
Director of Public Safety is autho-

The City Record

12
rized to make one or more written
requirement
contracts
with
the
Knox Company, for the requirements for a period not to exceed the
grant term of the necessary items of
the purchase and installation of the
Knox Sentralock Master Key Retention system in emergency suppression vehicles within the Division of
Fire, including labor if needed, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis, for the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
LAID ON THE TABLE
Ord. No. 207-11.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 623.10 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1020-76,
passed June 14, 1976 relating to
spray painting property.
Ord. No. 397-12.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Pet Fund for the Ohio Pet
Program.
Without objection, Ordinance No.
207-11 and Ordinance No. 397-12 were
relieved of further consideration of
all committees and laid on the table
pursuant to the Rules of Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18.
Nays 0. Ordinance No. 207-11 and Ordinance No. 397-12. Laid on the Table.
MOTION
By Council Member Zone, seconded by Council Member Mitchell and
unanimously
carried
that
the
absence of Council Member Joe Cimperman, be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:35 p.m. to meet on Monday, April
30, 2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measure will be on
its final passage at the next meeting:
Ord. No. 550-12.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An
ordinance
authorizing
the
amendment and extension of the

franchise with Cleveland Thermal,
LLC for the transmission and supply of steam and water for heating,
cooling and power purposes.

BOARD OF CONTROL

April 18, 2012
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 18, 2012
at 10:38 a.m. with Interim Director
Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Interim
Director
Langhenry, Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Acting Director Bounds, Directors Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton,
Directors Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: JoMarie Wasik, Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Interim
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Division of Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 146-12.
By Director Dumas.
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 34-11, adopted on February 2, 2011, the City of Cleveland
entered
into
City
Contract
No.
RC2011000000023
with
Dougherty
Lumber Co., Inc. for an estimated
quantity of lumber and supplies, for
the various divisions of City government; and
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 34-11, adopted on February 2, 2011, was amended by Board
of Control Resolution No. 58-11,
adopted on February 23, 2011, to list
the correct items recommended for
Contract No. RC2011000000023; and
Whereas, by its letter of April 10,
2012, Binkowsky-Dougherty Distribution, LLC requested the City’s consent to assignment and assumption
of the contract from Dougherty
Lumber Co., Inc.; and
Whereas
Binkowsky-Dougherty
Distribution, LLC has agreed to
honor all quotes, purchase orders,
and obligations of Dougherty Lumber Co., Inc. under, and the terms
and conditions of, Contract No.
including
the
RC2011000000023,
option to renew for one additional
year; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that this Board acknowledges and
consents to the assignment of City
Contract No. RC2011000000023 from
Dougherty
Lumber
Co.,
Inc.
to
Binkowsky-Dougherty Distribution,
LLC.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Finance is authorized to
execute any documents necessary to
effect and recognize the City’s consent to assignment of Contract No.
RC2011000000023 granted above. A
copy of the consent to assignment
and the assignment of the contract
shall be filed with the original of
the contract in the custody of the
Commissioner of Accounts.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Acting Director Bounds,
Directors Rush, Southerington, Act-

614

April 25, 2012
ing Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 147-12.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
203-12, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on April 9, 2012,
Hylant Group is selected from a list
of firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities as the firm to be
employed by contract to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
Public Utilities Department of the
City of Cleveland to perform the professional services necessary for fire
and
extended
coverage
property
insurance for facilities and equipment within the Division of Cleveland Public Power, for a period of
one year with two one-year options
to renew, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into contract with
Hylant Group, based on its proposal
dated April 10, 2012, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, shall provide for the furnishing of professional services necessary to provide fire and extended
property
insurance
as
coverage
described in the proposal for a fee
of not to exceed $495,000, including
oil testing and other loss control services, and utilizing loss deductibles
of $250,000 per occurrence for all
losses including turbines, and shall
contain such additional provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultant is approved:
SUB-CONSULTANT

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Pinkney-Perry
Insurance Agency
$4,858.80
(MBE/CSB)
1% of premium
(equal to 10% of
Hylant’s compensation
as broker)
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Acting Director Bounds,
Directors Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 148-12.
By Director Withers.
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 326-11 adopted on
July 13, 2011, the City of Cleveland
entered
into
City
Contract
No.
RC2011*008 with East Jordan Iron
Works, Inc. for an estimated quantity of casting items, items 29, 30 &
34, 33 & 36, 37 through 48, 49 through
61, 65 through 69, and 73, for the
Divisions
of
Cleveland
Public
Power, Water, and Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, by its letter dated February 21, 2012, East Jordan Iron
Works, Inc. informed the City that
since January 6, 2012, it has been

April 25, 2012
conducting business and performing
Contract No. RC2011*008 as EJ USA,
Inc. upon all terms and conditions
of the contract; now, therefore,
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that this Board acknowledges the
change of name of East Jordan Iron
Works, Inc. to EJ USA, Inc. under
Contract No. RC2011*008 from and
after January 6, 2012.
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to execute all documents and
do all things necessary to implement the name change of East Jordan Iron Works, Inc. to EJ USA, Inc.
acknowledged above. A copy of the
acknowledgement
shall
be
filed
with the original of the contract in
the custody of the Commissioner of
Accounts.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Acting Director Bounds,
Directors Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 149-12.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Perk Company, Inc.
for
the
public
improvement
by
requirement contract of the 2012
Concrete Requirements Contract, all
items, for the Office of Capital Projects, received on January 19, 2012,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1603-11 as amended by Ordinance No.
531-12, respectively passed by Cleveland City Council on December 5,
2011 and April 16, 2012, upon a unit
price basis for the improvements to
be performed as ordered during the
period of one year starting upon
execution of a contract, at the unit
prices set forth in the bid, which on
the basis of the estimated work to
done
would
amount
to
be
$3,842,500.00,
is
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into a
requirement
contract
for
the
improvement, which contract shall
provide for an initial order for performance of work which shall be
certified to the contract in an
amount not less than $1,500,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the contractor
will perform so much of the balance
of the work as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the requirement contract, whether the same
shall be less than the total estimate
of work to be performed under the
contract or shall exceed the same by
not more than ten percent.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by the Perk Company,
Inc. for the above-mentioned public
improvement is approved:
TechReady Mix, Inc.
5000 Crayton Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44104
(CSB) — $840,000.00 — 21.86%
Cuyahoga Supply and Tool, Inc.
5340 Perkins Road
Cleveland, Ohio 44146
(CSB) — $175,500.00 — 4.57%

The City Record
CorStone, LTD.
3100 East 45th Street
Cleveland, Ohio 44127
(CSB) — $87,000.00 — 2.26%
PGT Construction, Inc.
9900 York-Theta Drive
North Royalton, Ohio 44133
(CSB) — $75,000.00 — 1.95%
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Acting Director Bounds,
Directors Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 150-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 134-12, adopted April 4,
2012, authorized the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00335-050 to John W. Sweeney or J S &
Associates, LLC for a parking lot, as
part of the City Land Reutilization
Program established under Ordinance No. 2076-76, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on October
25, 1976; and
Whereas, Resolution No. 134-12
incorrectly stated the passage date
of the Ordinance No. 134-12 to be
March 26, 2012; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 134-12, adopted by
this Board April 4, 2012, authorizing
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 003-35-050 to John W.
Sweeney or J S & Associates, LLC
for a parking lot, is amended by
substituting “March 19, 2012” for
“March 26, 2012”, where appearing in
the resolution.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
134-12 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Acting Director Bounds,
Directors Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 151-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 020-02-025 located at 13344 Wainfleet Avenue in Ward 18; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Phillip A. Campbell proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for Yard Expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:

615

13
1. The member of Council from
Ward 18 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Phillip A. Campbell for the sale and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
020-02-025
located at 13344 Wainfleet Avenue,
Cleveland, OH. 44135, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$400.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Acting Director Bounds,
Directors Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 152-12.
By Director Nichols.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
461-11, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on April 25, 2011,
Hull & Associates, Inc. is selected
from a list of firms determined after
a full and complete canvass by the
Director of Economic Development
as the firm to be employed by contract to supplement the regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland to
perform the professional environassessment,
remediation,
mental
and/or
redevelopment
assistance
services necessary to implement the
Clean Ohio Assistance Fund Grant
project consisting of the proposed
redevelopment of the former Brookpark landfill located at Kolthoff
Road and I-X Center Drive.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Economic Development
is authorized to enter into a contract
with Hull & Associates, Inc. for the
above-mentioned services based on
its proposal dated February 10, 2012,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
for the furnishing of professional
services as described in the proposal for an aggregate fee of $299,377,
and shall contain such additional
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Acting Director Bounds,
Directors Rush, Southerington, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

The City Record

14
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, MAY 7, 2012

40' x 120' lot in a C1 Residence
Office District; subject to the limitations under Section 337.10, a retail
grocery store is not a permitted use
and is first permitted in a Local
Retail Business District; and according to Cleveland Codified Ordinance
359.02(a)(b), a nonconforming use
of a building or premises which has
been discontinued shall not thereafter be returned to such nonconforming use and shall be considered
discontinued:
(1) when the intent of the owner
to discontinue the use is express; or
(2) when the use is voluntarily discontinued for six (6) months or
more- the intent to voluntarily discontinue a use may be implied from
acts or the failure to act, including,
but not limited to, the removal of
and failure to replace the characteristic equipment and furnishings;
or, (3) the cessation of business
operations for two (2) years or more
unless the cessation of business
operations was caused by factors
out of the control of the business
such as the disability or illness of
the
proprietor
or
governmental
action unrelated to the behavior of
the business; and if the business
operations have ceased for more
than two (2) years, the presence of
characteristic equipment and furnishings is not relevant.
Calendar No. 12-68: 13626 Beachwood
Avenue (Ward 1)
Georgia Clark, owner, appeals to
erect a 4' x 5' pre-manufactured
wheelchair lift in the front yard
area of a single family dwelling on
a 40' x 155' parcel in an A1 OneFamily District; and subject to the
limitations
under
Section
329.04(c)(1) in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances, the proposed wheelchair
lift
is
not
a
permitted
encroachment in the front yard area.

9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 12-63: 2906 Fulton Road
(Ward 14)
Caribe Development LLC, owner,
and Luis Burgos, appeal to expand
a restaurant use to include a bakery and an entertainment center in
a B1 Local Retail Business District
on the northwest corner of Fulton
Road and Seymour Avenue; subject
to the limitations under Section
343.01 the proposed entertainment
center is not permitted and first permitted in a General Retail Business
District subject to the regulations of
Section 347.12; and contrary to Section 349.04(c) 50 parking spaces are
proposed and 71 off-street spaces are
required; and no entertainment use
shall be established within 500 feet
of a residential district or day care,
kindergarten, elementary or secondary
school,
public
library,
church, playground, public or nonprofit recreation or community center; nor shall such use be established within 500 feet of another
such use according to the provisions
under
Sections
347.12(a)(1)
and
347.12(a)(2) in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-64: 662 East 140th
Street (Ward 10)
Joseph Saleh, owner, appeals to
establish use as a retail grocery
store with two residential units in
an existing two-story building on a

April 25, 2012

Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, APRIL 23, 2012
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, April 23,
2012, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 12-51: 5320 Stanard
Avenue
Cuyahoga County Board of Developmental Disabilities, owner, and
Solutions at Work appealed for an
addition to an existing school in a
B1 Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 12-57: 4178 West 59th
Street
Sharon Clemons appealed to erect
124 lineal feet of 4 feet high chain
link fence in the front yard area of
a parcel in an A1 One-Family District; subject to conditions.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 11-191: 3821 Lorain
Avenue
Mig Ltd. Company and Ellen
Mueller, appealed to establish use as

616

a motor vehicle service garage (tire
installation) in a D3 Local Retail
Business District.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 12-28: 12945 Lorain
Avenue
Joseph Coreno appealed to establish use for auto sales and auto
minor repair garage under Section
325.482 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances in a General Retail Business District.
The following
MISSED:

appeal

was

DIS-

None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 12-60: 2619 Vestry
Avenue postponed to 5-14-12.
Calendar
No.
12-27:
2202
Prame
Avenue postponed to 5-14-12.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on April 16, 2012 were
adopted and approved on April 23,
2012.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 12-43: 1401 Prospect
Avenue
PSC Hanna Building LLC, owner,
and Hanna Annex, LLC, prospective
purchaser, appealed to change use
from offices to apartments in an
existing eight (8) stories building in
an E5 General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 12-52: 3136 West 90th
Street
Jerry Riffle appealed to erect 90
lineal feet of 4 feet high chain link
fence along the front and setback of
a vacant portion of a consolidated
lot; subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 12-53: 11125 Magnolia
Drive
The Cleveland Music Settlement
appealed to install a temporary tent
for a period of 180 days from April
9 to October 9, 2012.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 12-49: 16321 Telfair
Avenue
Faith Walk Fellowship Church
appealed to change use of a single
family residence to a church in an
A1 One-Family District
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

April 25, 2012
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, May 9, 2012
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
May 9, 2012, at 1:00 p.m., to consider the following ordinances now
pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 737-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height Districts of land
bounded by Quincy Ave., E. 79 St.,
E. 71st St., Platt Ave. and Woodland
Ave. to a Semi-Industry District, a
‘C’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District (Map Change No. 2323; Sheet
No. 5).
Ord. No. 746-10.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Cleveland.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of lands on the
south side of Cedar Ave. between E.
76 St. and E. 80 St. to Local Retail
Business and a ‘2’ Height District
(Map Change No. 2334; Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 747-10.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
on the south side of Central Avenue
between E. 79 St. and E. 83 St. to
Multi-Family Residential, a ‘C’ Area
District and a ‘1’ Height District
(Map Change No. 2331; Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 748-10.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance changing the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
on the south side of Central Ave. to
Quincy Ave. between E. 82 St. and
E. 83 St. to Open Space and Recreation, an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘1’
Height District (Map Change No.
2330; Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 749-10.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of lands on the
northwest corner of E. 79 St. and
Quincy Ave. to Local Retail Business and a ‘1’ Height District (Map
Change No. 2332; Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 755-10.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of land on the north side of
Woodland east of East 79th St. and
west of E. 86 St. shown shaded on
the attached map to a ResidenceIndustry District (Map Change No.
2324; Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 757-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of land on the northwest
corner of Woodland and E. 79th St.
to
Local
Retail
Business
(Map
Change No. 2325; Sheet No. 5).

The City Record
Ord. No. 758-10.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of lands on the north side
of Quebec Ave., between E. 103 St.
and E. 105 St. south of Cedar Ave.
to Residence Office District (Map
Change No. 2328; Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 759-10.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of lands on the
south side of Quincy Ave. between
E. 79 St. and E. 82nd St. to Local
Retail Business and a ‘1’ Height District (Map Change No. 2329; Sheet
No. 5).
Ord. No. 760-10.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance changing the Use
District of lands on the southeast
corner of Quincy Ave. and E. 93rd
St. to Institutional-Research (Map
Change No. 2327; Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 761-10.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance changing the Use
and Height Districts of lands on the
north side of Quincy Ave. between
E. 93 St. and E. 105 St. to Local
Retail Business, a ‘C’ Area District
and a ‘1’ Height District (Map
Change No. 2333; Sheet No. 5).
Ord. No. 1225-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land located on the northwest corner of W. 65th Street and
Storer Avenue from Shopping Center
to General Industry (Map Change
No. 2369, Sheet Number 2).
Ord. No. 277-12.
By Council Members Cummins and
Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
fronting on Scranton Road between
Parafine Avenue to land south of
Barber Avenue to Local Retail,
Multi-Family or Two Family, a ‘B’
Area District and a 1 Height District
as
shown
shaded
on
the
attached map (Map Change No. 2387,
Sheet Numbers 1).
Ord. No. 278-12.
By Council Member Cummins.
An ordinance to change the Use
and Area Districts of land fronting
on Scranton Road between Wade
Avenue and Castle Avenue to Open
Space and Recreation, One or Two
Family Residential and an A or B
Area District as shown shaded on
the attached map (Map Change No.
2389, Sheet Number 1).
Ord. No. 279-12.
By Council Member Cummins.
An ordinance to change the Use
and
Height
Districts
of
lands
fronting on the east and west sides
of
Scranton
Road
near
Buhrer
Avenue
and
Kinkel
Avenue
as
shown shaded on the attached map
to a Multi-Family Residential District and a 1 Height District (Map
Change No. 2388, Sheet Number 1).
Ord. No. 285-12.
By Council Member Cummins.
An
ordinance
establishing
a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay District
(PRO) on land fronting on West 25
Street between Barber Avenue and
Library Avenue and To change the
Use, Area and Height Districts of
land located on the east and west
sides of West 25th Street and Clark
Avenue to General or Local Retail
and Multi-Family, a ‘C’ Area District

617

15
and a 2 or a 1 Height District as
identified on the attached maps
(Map Change No. 2390, Sheet Numbers 1 & 2).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Chair
Committee on City Planning
_____
April 25, 2012 and May 2, 2012

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, MAY 11, 2012
File No. 43-12 — 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
Marble
Emergency
Repairs (Re-Bid), for the Division
of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2081-06, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
March 5, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER

The City Record

16
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 26, 2012 AT
2:30 P.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1ST FLOOR AUDITORIUM, 1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 45-12 — Ductile Iron Pipe
and Fittings, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 26, 2012 AT
10:30 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER, DISTRIBUTION AND
MAINTENANCE, 4600 HARVARD
AVENUE, PIPE REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44105.
April 18, 2012 and April 25, 2012

Council of the City of Cleveland,
April 20, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 2012 AT 11:00
A.M. WATER POLLUTION CONTROL, 12302 KIRBY AVENUE,
RED
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.

April 25, 2012
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 3, 2012 AT
10:00 A.M. THE DEPARTMENT
OF PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S
CENTRAL
RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.

April 18, 2012 and April 25, 2012
THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2012
File No. 44-12 — Pipe Repair Couplings for Groups A & B, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Section 129.25 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 26, 2012 AT
11:30 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER, DISTRIBUTION AND
MAINTENANCE, 4600 HARVARD
AVENUE, PIPE REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44105.

File No. 52-12 — Purchase of Necessary Items of Fencing and Gates,
Including Labor and Materials
for Repair and Installation (ReBid), for the Various Divisions of
Port Control, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 808-11, Passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 20, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, MAY 8, 2012 AT 10:00
A.M. THE DEPARTMENT OF
PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44135-3193.

WEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 2012
April 18, 2012 and April 25, 2012
File No. 46-12 — Landscape Materials & Supplies (Re-Bid), for the
Various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance,
as authorized by Section 181.101
of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
WEDNESDAY, MAY 2, 2012 AT
10:30 A.M. THE CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM
128, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 47-12 — Various Pool Chemicals, Re-location and Transporting of Various Swimming Pool
Chemicals, for the Various Divisions of Recreation, Department
of Public Works, as authorized
by Section 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, APRIL 26, 2012 AT
2:00
P.M.
THE
CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, ROOM 8, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
File No. 49-12 — Virgin Asphalt Concrete, for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 171511, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, January 9,
2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 2012 AT 11:30
A.M. THE CITY OF CLEVELAND, DIVISION OF STREETS,
ROOM
25,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
File No. 50-12 — Fence Installation,
Maintenance and/or Repair, for
the Divisions of Water Pollution
Control, Water & Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 395-09, passed by the

WEDNESDAY, MAY 23, 2012
File No. 48-12 — Building Materials
and Used Bricks, for the Various
Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
WEDNESDAY, MAY 9, 2012 AT
10:30 A.M. THE CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM
128, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

April 18, 2012 and April 25, 2012
FRIDAY, MAY 18, 2012
File No. 54-12 — Purchase New Electric Motors and Pumps Including
Labor and Materials, for the Division of Property Management,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 3, 2012 AT
10:30 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
12
(CUSTODIAN’S
ROOM
OFFICE),
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.

File No. 53-12 — Maintain and
Repair Automatic Doors, Including Labor and Installation, for
the Various Divisions of Port
Control, Department of Port Control, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 4, 2012 AT 10:00 A.M.
THE DEPARTMENT OF PORT
CONTROL,
CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 441353193.
File No. 57-12 — Necessary Items of
to
Maintain
and
Air
Filters
Repair Heating, Ventilation and
Air Conditioning Systems, for the
Various Divisions of Port Control,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, MAY 7, 2012 AT 10:00 A.M.
THE DEPARTMENT OF PORT
CONTROL,
CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

April 25, 2012 and May 2, 2012
THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2012

April 25, 2012 and May 2, 2012
WEDNESDAY, MAY 23, 2012
File No. 51-12 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Maintain and
Repair Heating, Ventilation and
Air Conditioning Systems, for the
Various Divisions of Port Control,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.

618

File No. 55-12 — Purchase of Various Compressor, Vehicle Lifts and
Related Equipment Repair, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Works, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1330-A-10, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 16, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 4, 2012 AT 10:30 A.M.
THE
DIVISION
OF
MOTOR

April 25, 2012
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150
EAST 49TH STREET, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
File No. 56-12 — Towing and Winching Services, for the Division of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 1330A-10, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 16,
2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 4, 2012 AT 10:00 A.M.
THE
DIVISION
OF
MOTOR
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150
EAST 49TH STREET, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
File No. 58-12 — Tree Trimming Services, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 628-11, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, December 16, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MAY 4, 2012 AT 10:30 A.M.
THE TOM L. JOHNSON BUILDING, 1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 59-12 — Tasers and Related Equipment, for the Division of
Police,
Department
of
Public
Safety, as authorized by Section
135.065 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 3, 2012 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CLEVELAND
POLICE HEADQUARTERS, 1300
ONTARIO, 7TH FLOOR, POLICE
ACADEMY
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.

April 25, 2012 and May 2, 2012

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 541-12.
By Council Member Cimperman
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
at 3232 Lakeside Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 968-11, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit at 3232 Lakeside Avenue by
Resolution No. 968-11 adopted by the
Council on July 20, 2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Flextron, LLC, DBA Gotcha Inn,
3232 Lakeside Avenue and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number 2779680 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 968-11, containing such

The City Record
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

Res. No. 542-12.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit at 806 Literary Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of D5 Liquor
Permit from Grape Devine, Inc., 806
Literary Avenue, 1st floor, basement
and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
Permanent Number 33293330005 to
Justin Hughes, LLC, 806 Literary
Avenue, 1st floor, basement and
patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 44169950005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of D5 Liquor Permit from Grape Devine, Inc., 806 Literary Avenue, 1st floor, basement
and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113,
Permanent Number 33293330005 to
Justin Hughes, LLC, 806 Literary

619

17
Avenue, 1st floor, basement and
patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number
44169950005;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

Res. No. 543-12.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
stock of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit at 4995-97 Denison Avenue and
repealing Resolution No. 1727-11,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of stock of a D2, D2X,
D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to Pink
Slips, Inc., 4995-97 Denison Avenue,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio 44102, Permanent No. 6932324
by Resolution No. 1727-11 adopted by
the Council on December 5, 2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D2,
D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
Pink Slips, Inc., 4995-97 Denison
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
No. 6932324 be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1727-11, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

Res. No. 544-12.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit at 4757 Lorain
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor

18
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Sunrise Food
Mart, Inc., DBA Sunrise Food Mart,
4757 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 8697416 to
MGM Investment & Trade, Inc., 4757
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 5896931;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Sunrise Food
Mart, Inc., DBA Sunrise Food Mart,
4757 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 8697416 to
MGM Investment & Trade, Inc., 4757
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 5896931;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

The City Record
Ord. No. 79-12.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Mitchell, and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1578-11,
passed December 5, 2011, relating to
one or more concession agreements
for the operation of first-class food
and beverage service in connection
with renting the Rotunda in City
Hall.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1578-11, passed December 5,
2011, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1.
That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Public
Works is authorized to enter into a
Concession Agreement on the basis of
competitive proposals for the operation of first-class food and beverage
service in connection with renting the
Rotunda in City Hall under Section
131.081 of the Codified Ordinances and
for marketing the rental of the Rotunda for catered events, for a period not
to exceed two years, with a one-year
option to renew exercisable by the
Director of Public Works. The selection of the concessionaire or concessionaires shall be made by the Board
of Control on the nomination of the
Director of Public Works. The concession fee to be paid to the City shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
Section 2. That existing Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 1578-11, passed December 5, 2011, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

Ord. No. 216-12.
By
Council
Members
Kelley,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 523.21 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1576-11,
passed December 5, 2011; relating to
the Cleveland Public Power energy
adjustment charge.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the rates, rules
and regulations relating to the operation of the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, for electric service, fixed
by the Board of Control by the adoption of Resolution No. _______, on
_________, are approved.

620

April 25, 2012
Section 2. That Section 523.21 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1576-11, passed December 5, 2011,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 523.21 Energy Adjustment
Charge
(a) An additional incremental
charge for excess fuel and power production and purchase power costs
may be applied to the rates prescribed
in Sections 523.02 to 523.065 and any
other rate schedule as may be adopted
by the City.
(b) The incremental charge shall
be based on the fuel and purchase
power cost per kilowatt hour delivered calculated under divisions
(c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c) (1) The fuel and purchase
power cost per kilowatt hour sold to
residential ratepayers shall be determined by dividing the sum of the
cost of the kilowatt hours purchased
from the Power Authority of the
State of New York and the average
cost of kilowatt hours purchased
from other sources needed to supply
the residential customers by the
total kilowatt hours distributed to
residential customers. The incremental charge calculated herein
shall be adjusted by subtracting 15
mils per kilowatt hour for residential customers who provide the Division of Cleveland Public Power with
a certificate of reduction of taxes
obtained pursuant to the Homestead
Exemption provisions of Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code, and 9.75 mils per kilowatt hour for all other residential
customers.
(2) Except as provided in Section
523.048, the fuel and purchase power
cost per kilowatt hour sold to all
ratepayers, other than residential
ratepayers, during the twelve months
of the year, shall be determined by
dividing the sum of the total cost of
coal, oil, gas and purchase power by
the total kilowatt hours distributed,
except that the computation shall
exclude the cost of PASNY power and
the amount of PASNY power allocable
to kilowatt hours distributed, and
shall exclude the costs of all purchase
power and kilowatt hours from a specific source or sources purchased by
the Division for distribution to
ratepayers pursuant to Sections
523.048 and 523.049. The incremental
charge calculated herein shall be
adjusted by subtracting 3.0 mils per
kilowatt hour.
(d) At the end of each month, the
Division of Cleveland Public Power
shall determine the excess fuel and
power charge during such month as
herein provided.
Section 3. That existing Section
523.21 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1576-11, passed December 5, 2011, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

April 25, 2012
Ord. No. 246-12.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 131.67 relating to authorizing standard and requirement
contracts for labor and materials for
capital maintenance and repair of
City facilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 131.67 to read as follows:
Section 131.67 Labor and Materials
for Capital Maintenance and Repair
of City Facilities
(a) The Director of Public Works is
authorized to enter into one or more
standard purchase or requirement
contracts duly let to the lowest and
best bidder after competitive bidding
for materials, equipment, services,
and supplies necessary for capital
maintenance and repair of City facilities, and labor and installation, if necessary. Any purchase made under this
section shall be made by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies and
paid from the annual appropriations
made for this purchase.
(b) That under Section 108(b) of
the Charter, the purchases authorized
by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Works may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 2. That new Section 131.67
as enacted by this ordinance shall
expire and be of no further force and
effect two years after the date of passage of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

Ord. No. 256-12.
By Council Member K. Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into an agreement with the
Neighborhood Leadership Institute to
implement educational, recreational
and cultural programs in various
school buildings and recreation centers, provide leadership training and
conduct citywide tennis programs.
Whereas, based on recommendations made by the Cleveland Summit
on Education, certain pilot programs
were created; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
an agreement with Neighborhood
Leadership Institute to implement
educational, recreational and cultural
programs in various school buildings
and recreation centers, provide leadership training and conduct citywide
summer tennis programs, in an
amount not to exceed $289,511,
payable from Fund Nos. 01-7004-6380,
Request No. RQS 7004, RL 2012-27.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

Ord. No. 266-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with the Downtown Cleveland
Alliance to provide a portion of the
cash match required for the expansion of the downtown trolley service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into a grant agreement with the
Downtown Cleveland Alliance to provide, as a one-time grant, a portion of
the cash match required for the
expansion of the downtown trolley
service.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed an amount of
$100,000 and shall be paid from Fund
No. 17 SF 652, RQS 9501, RL 2012-37.
Section 3. That the agreement and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That prior to entering
into the grant agreement, the Director of Economic Development will
obtain a commitment from the
Regional Transit Authority to continue operating the current downtown
trolley service during the three-year
term of the grant.
Section 5. That the document
labeled “Memorandum of Understanding” dated April 6, 2012, as presented
to the Finance Committee of this
Council, and when executed, the
grant agreement and other documents needed to complete the transaction, shall be placed in File No. 266-12A.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

621

19
Ord. No. 269-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Building and
Housing to apply for and accept a
grant from the Cuyahoga County
Prosecutor’s Office for the County
Delinquent Tax and Assessment Collection Fund Grant Program; authorizing the director to enter into one or
more contracts with various non-profit and for-profit agencies and entities
for services necessary to perform nuisance abatements of deteriorated residential buildings following foreclosure, including but not limited to,
demolitions, board-ups, and lot maintenance; and authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement
contracts of labor and materials necessary to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in the
amount of $1,000,000, from the Cuyahoga Prosecutor’s Office to conduct
the County Delinquent Tax and
Assessment Collection Fund Grant
Program; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the letter to
William D. Mason dated February 28,
2012 for the grant described below.
Section 2. That the letter to William
D. Mason dated February 28, 2012 for
the grant, presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at a public
hearing on this legislation and set
forth in File No. 269-12-A, is made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, is approved in all respects,
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to enter into one or more contracts
with various non-profit and for-profit
agencies and entities for services necessary to perform nuisance abatements, under this grant, of deteriorated residential buildings following
foreclosure, including but not limited
to, demolitions, board-ups, and lot
maintenance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the grant term for the items of labor
and materials necessary to implement
this grant, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Department of Building and Housing. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for
the entire term.
Section 5. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged

20
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a delivery
order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Building and Housing
may sign all documents that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 7. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to accept
monies in repayment of nuisance
abatements performed under this
grant, including any amount spent for
services related to collection of demolition cost, such as title searches,
credit bureau reports, and document
filing fees. Fees collected under this
grant shall be deposited into a revolving fund which will be used to provide
additional materials, equipment, supplies, and services under this grant as
described in the file, and the funds
are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 8. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes, naming the City of Cleveland as payee,
and mortgages, naming the City of
Cleveland as mortgagee, and any
other security instrument executed to
evidence and secure repayment of
fees under the City’s Demolition and
Board-up Programs.
Section 9. That the cost of any contracts authorized by this ordinance
shall be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds
accepted under this ordinance and
from the revolving fund mentioned
above.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

Ord. No. 390-12.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. NF 2011-022 with Servisair USA, Inc. to provide for the use
of office space at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport for office and
storage space to support ground
handling operation services.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1034-10, passed October 18, 2010, the Director of Port
Control entered into Contract No. NF
2011-022 with Servisair USA, Inc. for
the use of office space at Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport
(“Leased Premises”) for office and
storage space to support ground
handling operation services; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1034-10
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and

The City Record
Whereas, for the use of the
Leased Premises, Servisair USA, Inc.
shall pay the City an annual fee as
specified in the contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. NF 2011-022 with Servisair
USA, Inc. for an additional year for
the use of Leased Premises at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
for office and storage space to support ground handling operation services. This ordinance constitutes the
additional
legislative
authority
required by Ordinance No. 1034-10 to
exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

Ord. No. 391-12.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. NF 2011-037 with Servisair USA, Inc. to provide for the
operation of an air cargo facility in
the North Cargo Facility Building at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
No.
1184-10,
passed
Ordinance
November 8, 2010, the Director of
Port Control entered into Contract
No. NF 2011-037 with Servisair USA,
Inc. to provide for the operation of
an air cargo facility in the North
Cargo Facility Building (“Leased
Premises”) at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1184-10
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, for the use of the
Leased Premises, Servisair USA, Inc.
shall pay the City an annual fee as
specified in the contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. NF 2011-037 with Servisair
USA, Inc. for an additional year for
the use of the Leased Premises to
provide for the operation of an air
cargo facility in the North Cargo
Facility Building at Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport.
This
ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 1184-10 to exercise
this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirma-

622

April 25, 2012
tive vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

Ord. No. 392-12.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract
No.
69925
with
Brown
Eagle Construction, LLC to provide
for the use and occupancy of certain
City-owned property located in the
passenger
terminal
building
at
Burke Lakefront Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
No.
1544-09,
passed
Ordinance
November 23, 2009, the Director of
Port Control entered into Contract
No. 69925 with Brown Eagle Construction, LLC (“Brown Eagle”) to
provide for the use and occupancy
of certain City-owned property located in the passenger terminal building at Burke Lakefront Airport for
the purpose of supporting their construction management-related activities; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1544-09
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
the lease; and
Whereas, for the use of the
Leased premises, Brown Eagle shall
pay the City an annual rent as specified in the lease; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 69925 with Brown Eagle
for an additional year to provide for
the use and occupancy of certain
City-owned property located in the
passenger
terminal
building
at
Burke Lakefront Airport for the purpose of supporting their construction management-related activities.
This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required
by Ordinance No. 1544-09 to exercise
this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

Ord. No. 405-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into one or more contracts with various non-profit development
organizations,
or
their
designees, to provide financial assistance for preserving affordable lease-

April 25, 2012
purchase housing units and facilitating the acquisition of those units by
the existing tenants.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various non-profit development
organizations,
or
their
designees, to provide financial assistance
for
preserving
affordable
lease-purchase housing units and
facilitating the acquisition of those
units by the existing tenants.
Section 2. That the aggregate cost
of the contract or contracts shall not
exceed $500,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 14 SF 036, RQS 8006, RL 201248.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

Ord. No. 455-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a State
of Ohio 166 Program Loan from the
Ohio Department of Development to
conduct a revolving loan program to
make loans or grants to assist with
demolition and asbestos abatement of
eligible projects; and authorizing the
director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities,
or individuals to implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a State
of Ohio 166 Program Loan from the
Ohio Department of Development
(“State Loan”) in the amount of
$5,000,000 to conduct a program to
assist with demolition and asbestos
abatement of eligible buildings in
eligible areas of the City (“Eligible
Projects”).
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into a loan agreement and
amendments to the loan agreement
with the State of Ohio for the State
Loan, in general accordance with the
term sheet placed in File No. 455-12-A
,subject to the final approval by the
Director of Economic Development.
The Director of Economic Development is further authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the State Loan, and to appropriate the
loan funds for the purposes of this
ordinance, including the obligation of

The City Record
the City of Cleveland to provide cash
matching funds in the amount of
$670,000, payable from Fund No. 17 SF
965, as a condition to receiving the
loan. (RQS 9501, RL 2012-49).
Section 3. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
various agencies, entities, or individuals to provide loans or grants to
assist with certain demolition and
asbestos abatement for Eligible Projects.
Section 4. That the terms of the
loans or grants shall be according to
the terms set forth in the file.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept the collateral determined by
the Director to secure repayment of
the loans. Any loan agreements, security instruments, or other documents
shall be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
fees under federal regulations. The
fees shall be deposited to and expended from the Industrial Commercial
Land Bank Fund, 17 SF 965.
Section 7. That the contracts and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transactions authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. That the loan or grant
contracts authorized in this legislation require the recipient of financial
assistance to work with The Workforce Investment Board for Workforce Area No. 3 to identify and solicit
qualified candidates for job opportunities related to the City’s contracts,
and place special emphasis on the
hard to employ, including but not limited to the disabled and persons who
have been convicted of or have pled
guilty to a criminal offense, unless
the criminal conviction or related circumstances relate to the duties for the
particular job sought.
Section 9. That any loan or grant
entered into under this ordinance
shall be authorized when approved by
the Mayor and the Council Member in
whose ward the project is being given
assistance shall submit a letter of
support for the project, and, for any
loans, the approval of the Cleveland
Citywide Development Corporation.
The Director of Economic Development shall notify the Council Member
in whose ward the project will occur
before it has been approved by the
Cleveland Citywide Development Corporation. That the Director of Economic Development shall provide a
quarterly report of the status of the
program to the Chair of the Community and Economic Development Committee.
Section 10. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept the State Loan funds authorized in this ordinance and deposit
the monies into a fund designated by
the Director of Finance; and to accept
repayment of the loans and to deposit
the monies into a fund or fund to be
designated
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
Section 11. That the Director of Economic Development and the Director
of Building and Housing are authorized to enter into Memoranda of
Agreement providing for the funding
of demolition and asbestos abatement
for Eligible Projects, and that the
property owners shall be invoiced for

623

21
the costs of demolition, asbestos
abatement, administrative costs, and
any other costs authorized by applicable law, and, when authorized by
applicable law, liens shall be filed
against the property and that any
demolition, abatement, and cost
recovery activities are conducted
according to the provisions of the Codified Ordinances. That any invoices or
liens shall specify that the lien shall
be in favor of the City of Cleveland –
Industrial Commercial Land Bank.
Section 12. That any monies collected as a result of liens and invoices on
Eligible Projects shall be transferred
to the fund to be designated for the
acceptance of repayments by the
Director of Finance. That any properties acquired by the City that are subject to liens or charges based on the
use of the funds authorized under this
ordinance be accepted into the Industrial Commercial Land Bank.
Section 13. That on execution of the
State Loan agreement, the Director of
Economic Development is authorized
to repay the loan funds to the State of
Ohio under the terms and conditions
of the agreement, from the funds
approved by the Director of Finance.
Section 14. That the costs of each
loan or grant and the costs incurred
by the Director of Building and Housing pursuant to Memoranda of Agreement between the Director of Building and Housing and the Director of
Economic Development shall be paid
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the proceeds of the loan
accepted under this ordinance and
from the fund or fund to which are
credited any loan repayments made
from loans authorized under this ordinance, and are appropriated for this
purpose.
Section 15. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 20, 2012.

Ord. No. 530-12.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance designating the access road leading into the
Judge Jean Murrell Capers Tennis
Courts at Rockefeller Park off of
East 105th Street between Martin
Luther King Drive and East Boulevard with an honorary designation of
“Forest City Tennis Club Drive.”
Whereas, in 1912, the Forest City
Tennis Club (“FCTC”) was formed
in Cleveland by a group of AfricanAmerican
professional
men
who
challenged the racist exclusionary
practices of other clubs, by forming
their own; and
Whereas, the club members started playing at a court that was located behind St. John AME Church
located at 2261 E. 40th at Central
Ave; and
Whereas, FCTC grew and later
began competing with other players
in the surrounding cities of Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Louisville, Columbus, Detroit, Chicago and Buffalo;
and

22
Whereas, it eventually grew to
include women and children in an
annual tournament and opened its
membership to all persons regardless of race, creed, or color; and
Whereas, by 1946, and annual
tournament rotated between Cleveland,
Chicago
and
Detroit
and
became known as the Tri-City Tournament and is still going on today;
and
Whereas, Tri-City Tournament has
grown in size and participants from
ten years old to over seventy years
old now compete in the following
categories:
Men’s
Singles,
Men’s
Doubles, Women’s Singles, Women’s
Doubles, Mixed Doubles and Junior
Division; and
Whereas, FCTC began playing at
the now newly renovated Rockefeller Park Tennis courts in 1952,
and Rockefeller Park became the
site for many FCTC Tennis Tournaments and clinics and is used for
those purposes today; and
Whereas, three tournaments for
amateur players of all skill levels,
two of which are sanctioned by the
United States Tennis Association,
are organized and administered by
FCTC each year;
Whereas, the FCTC Junior Tennis
program, with FCTC members volunteering their time to teach tennis
on Saturdays, was instrumental in
developing such prominent plays as
Carlos Flemming, Leslie Allen, and
Lisa Jones; and
Whereas, many more individuals
participated
in
the
FCTC
that
Junior Tennis program became very
productive members of their communities – this is what FCTC Junior
Tennis Program hopes to provide
for our youth; and
Whereas, the citizens of Glenville
want to recognized the importance
of the Forest City Tennis Club by
designating Access Road between
___ Street and ____ Street as “Forest
City Tennis Club Drive”; and,
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the access road
leading into the Judge Jean Murrell
Capers Tennis Courts at Rockefeller
Park
off
of
East
105th
Street
between Martin Luther King Drive
and East Boulevard is designated
with an honorary designation of
“Forest City Tennis Club Drive.”
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 16, 2012.

Ord. No. 531-12.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1603-11,
passed December 5, 2011, relating to
the public improvement of repairing

The City Record
and constructing roadways, bus pads,
sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs,
curb ramps, brick streets.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1603-11, passed December
5, 2011, is amended to read as follows:
Section 3. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF
394, 20 SF 500, 20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20
SF 520, 20 SF 528, 20 SF 534, 20 SF 540,
and from the fund or funds to which
are credited the proceeds of 2012 general obligation bonds, authorized by
Ordinance No. 274-12, passed April 2,
2012, if the City sells such bonds, and
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase, which
purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the
contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance. (RQN 4004, RL
2011-057)
Section 2. That existing Section 3 of
Ordinance No. 1603-11, passed December 5, 2011, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 16, 2012.

Ord. No. 538-12.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Brancatelli, Keane and Kelley.
An emergency ordinance to extend
the moratorium on the review and
issuance of zoning permits, certificates of occupancy, and other license
or permit applications for internet
sweepstakes operations in the City of
Cleveland.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 136710, passed October 18, 2010, this Council declared a moratorium on the
review and issuance of zoning permits, certificates of occupancy, and
other license or permit applications
for internet sweepstakes operations
in the City of Cleveland, until April
18, 2011; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 50811, passed April 11, 2011, this Council
extended the moratorium declared by
Ordinance No. 1367-10 until October 24,
2011; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 143111, passed October 24, 2011, this Council extended the moratorium declared
by Ordinance No. 1367-10 until April
24, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council has been
researching internet sweepstakes
operations in order to make a determination regarding their classification under the City’s zoning code, and
possible regulations associated with
their activities; and
Whereas, on or about March 19,
2012, a jury returned guilty verdicts

624

April 25, 2012
in several cases for Gambling, Operating a Gambling House, and Possession of Criminal Tools, against individuals
that
operated
or
were
employed by internet sweepstakes
businesses prior to the initial moratorium declared by this council, raising
concerns about the legality of all such
businesses; and
Whereas, The Ohio General Assembly is considering legislation to
define sweepstakes terminal devices,
to license sweepstakes terminal
device operators and distributors and
to regulate their business operations;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health, safety, or welfare in
that an extension of the moratorium
on such internet sweepstakes operations for another six month period
will allow Council to continue to
study the recent court decisions and
other developments involving internet sweepstakes operations in order
to make a determination as to what
action is appropriate for the City;
now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the moratorium on
the review and issuance of zoning
permits, certificates of occupancy,
and other license or permit applications for internet sweepstakes operations in the City of Cleveland
declared under Ordinance No. 136710 passed October 18, 2010, as
amended by Ordinance No. 508-11,
passed April 11, 2011 and Ordinance
No. 1431-11, passed October 24, 2011,
is hereby extended until the effective date of an ordinance or law regulating internet sweepstakes operations, or until October 24, 2012,
whichever date occurs first.
Section 2. That, as used in this ordinance, “internet sweepstakes operations” shall have the same meaning as
in Ordinance 1367-10.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed April 16, 2012.
Effective April 16, 2012.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, April 23, 2012
9:30 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell,
Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
1:30 p.m.
Public
Utilities
Committee
&
Finance Committee: Present in Utilities: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Cummins, Miller, Polensek,
Pruitt. Authorized Absence: Conwell,
Dow,
Westbrook.
Protempore:
Keane. Present in Finance: Sweeney
Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt.
Authorized Absence: Westbrook.

The City Record

April 25, 2012
2:00 p.m.
Legislation Committee & Finance
Committee: Present in Legislation:
Mitchell, Chair; Brancatelli, Cleveland, Sweeney. Authorized Absence:
Cimperman, K. Johnson, Vice Chair;
Reed. Present in Finance: Sweeney
Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair; Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt.
Authorized Absence: Westbrook.

Finance
Committee:
Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Brady,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,
Pruitt. Authorized Absence: Westbrook.
Tuesday, April 24, 2012
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cum-

23
mins, J. Johnson, Miller, Pruitt,
Authorized
Westbrook,
Zone.
Absence: Cimperman.
1:30 p.m.
Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training Committee: Present:
Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice Chair;
Cummins,
J.
Johnson,
Mitchell.
Authorized Absence: K. Johnson,
Westbrook.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) And Chore Program — Expend CDBG Funds —
Community Development Department (O 568-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

Agreements
Econ. Dev. — Grant with Downtown Cleveland Alliance for the expansion of the
Downtown Trolley Service (O 266-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Educational, Recreational and Cultural Programs — School Buildings and Recreation Centers —
Neighborhood Leadership Institute — CMSD (O 256-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
El Hasa Temple No. 28 Shrine Temple — Building Renovations and Interior Improvements —
Economic Development (Ward(s) 5, 2, 6 NCF) (O 577-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rams Youth Football and Cheerleading Sports Program — activities for youth — E.M.S Rams
Youth Development Group, Inc. — Public Works (Ward 07 NCF) (O 576-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Internship (O 575-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

Appreciation
Lipuma, Tommy (R 603-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
Schlecht, Jim (R 602-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
Taseff, Damon (R 601-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

Appropriations
Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds & Home Funds — Community
Development Department (O 566-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Code Enforcement Program Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds —
Building and Housing Department — Code Enforcement Division — Community
Development Department (O 572-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Demolition Program and Board-Up Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building and Housing
Department — Community Development Department (O 567-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) And Chore Program — Expend CDBG
Funds — Aging Department — Community Development Department (O 568-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 607

. . . . . . . . . . . 610
. . . . . . . . . . . 607
. . . . . . . . . . . 608

Board of Control — Capital Projects Office
Concrete, 2012 — per Ord. 1603-11, 531-12 to Perk Company, Inc. (BOC Res. 149-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Castings items — acknowledge name change — Contract #RC2011*008 per BOC Res. 326-11 —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 148-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
Insurance, fire and extended property — per Ord. 203-12 to Hylant Group — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 147-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Lorain Avenue, 3620 (Ward 3) — PPN 003-35-050 — John W. Sweeney or J.S. & Associates, LLC
per Ord. 1647-11 — amend BOC Res. 134-12 (BOC Res. 150-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
Wainfleet Avenue, 13344 (Ward 18) — PPN 020-02-025 — Phillip A. Campbell (BOC Res. 151-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615

625

The City Record

24

April 25, 2012

Board of Control — Economic Development Department
Environmental assessment, remediation and redevelopment assistance — Clean Ohio
Assistance Fund Grant Project at Brookpark Landfill — per Ord. 461-11 to Hull
& Associates, Inc. (BOC Res. 152-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615

Board of Control — Finance Department
Lumber — approve assignment — Contract #PI2011*23 per BOC Res. 34-11, 58-11 (BOC Res. 146-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Lorain Avenue, 3620 (Ward 3) — PPN 003-35-050 — John W. Sweeney or J.S. & Associates, LLC
per Ord. 1647-11 — amend BOC Res. 134-12 (BOC Res. 150-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
Wainfleet Avenue, 13344 (Ward 18) — PPN 020-02-025 — Phillip A. Campbell (BOC Res. 151-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Environmental assessment, remediation and redevelopment assistance — Clean Ohio
Assistance Fund Grant Project at Brookpark Landfill — per Ord. 461-11 to Hull
& Associates, Inc. — Dept. of Economic Development (BOC Res. 152-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
Insurance, fire and extended property — per Ord. 203-12 to Hylant Group — Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 147-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Castings items — acknowledge name change — Contract #RC2011*008 per BOC Res. 326-11 —
Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control and Cleveland Public Power(BOC Res. 148-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
Insurance, fire and extended property — per Ord. 203-12 to Hylant Group — Division
of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 147-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Castings items — acknowledge name change — Contract #RC2011*008 per BOC Res. 326-11 —
Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control and Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 148-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614
Concrete, 2012 — per Ord. 1603-11, 531-12 to Perk Company, Inc. — Office of Capital
Projects (BOC Res. 149-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615
Lumber — approve assignment — Contract #PI2011*23 per BOC Res. 34-11, 58-11 — Dept. of
Finance (BOC Res. 146-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614

Board of Control — Water Division
Castings items — acknowledge name change — Contract #RC2011*008 per BOC Res. 326-11 —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 148-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Castings items — acknowledge name change — Contract #RC2011*008 per BOC Res. 326-11 —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 148-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Lorain Avenue, 12945, (Ward 17) – Joseph Coreno, owner — appeal withdrawn on 4/23/12
(Cal. 12-28) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 3821, (Ward 15) – Mig Ltd. Company and Ellen Mueller, owner — appeal heard
on 4/23/12 (Cal. 11-191) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Magnolia Drive, 11125, (Ward 8) – Cleveland Music School Settlement, owner — appeal
granted and adopted on 4/23/12 (Cal. 12-53) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prame Avenue, 2202, (Ward 14) – Westside Ministries, owner — appeal postponed to 5/14/12
on 4/23/12 (Cal. 12-27) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Avenue, 1401, (Ward 3) – PSC Hanna Building LLC, owner and Hanna
Annex, LLC, prospective purchaser — appeal granted and adopted on 4/23/12 (Cal. 12-43) . . . .
Stanard Avenue, 5320, (Ward 8) – Cuyahoga County Board of Development Disabilities
(CCBDD), owner and Solutions at Work (S.A.W., Inc.) — appeal heard on 4/23/12 (Cal. 12-51)
Telfair Avenue, 16321, (Ward 1) – Faith Walk Fellowship Church, owner — appeal denied and
adopted on 4/23/12 (Cal. 12-49) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vestry Avenue, 2619, (Ward 3) – Cleveland Bricks, LLC, owner — appeal postponed to
5/14/12 on 4/23/12 (Cal. 12-60) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 59th Street, 4178, (Ward 13) – Sharon Clemons, owner — appeal heard on 4/23/12
(Cal. 12-57) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 90th Street, 3136, (Ward 16) – Jerry Riffle, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
4/23/12 (Cal. 12-52). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

626

. . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . 616
. . . . . . . . . . . . 616

April 25, 2012

The City Record

25

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Beachwood Avenue, 13626, (Ward 1) – Georgia Clark, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/7/12
(Cal. 12-68) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 616
East 140th Street, 662, (Ward 10) – Joseph Saleh, owner — appeal to be heard on 5/7/12
(Cal. 12-64) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 616
Fulton Road, 2906, (Ward 14) – Caribe Development, LLC, owner and Luis Burgos — appeal
to be heard on 5/7/12 (Cal. 12-63) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 616

Building and Housing Department
Building and Housing Dept. — Apply & Accept 2012 County Foreclosure Grant for Demolitions,
Board Ups, and Lot Maintenance (O 269-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
Code Enforcement Program Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds —
Building and Housing Department — Code Enforcement Division — Community
Development Department (O 572-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
Demolition Program and Board-Up Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building and Housing
Department — Community Development Department (O 567-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607

Burials
Burial and Cremation Services for Indigent Dead — Health Division (O 403-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Burke Lakefront Airport
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69925 with Brown Eagle Construction, Llc — Lease
Office Space (O 392-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
Terminal Space — Flight Planning and Crew Layover Rest Area — Soluna Air Charter, Inc.
(O 563-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

Capital Projects
Amend Section 3 Ord. No. 1603-11 — public improvement contracts — Concrete — Roadways,
Bus Pads, Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Curb Ramps, Brick Streets (O 531-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624
East 105th St. (Between Martin Luther King Drive and East Blvd.) — Honorary Designation
Of “ Forest City Tennis Club Drive “ — City Planning Commission (Ward 08)
(O 530-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 623
Progressive Street Club — permit — 32 Flags — various locations — April 24 To May 25 —
America Flag For Peace (Ward 02) (O 578-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

Case Western Reserve University
Case Western Reserve University Public Health Partnership — Grant — Health
Department (O 565-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607

City Council
Cleveland City Council Domain Name — Authorize payment by City Credit Card (O 574-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Summer Internship — agreements (O 575-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

City of Cleveland Bids
Air filters for heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems — Department of Port
Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due May 23, 2012 (advertised 4/25/2012 and 5/2/2012) .
Building materials and used bricks — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid
due May 23, 2012 (advertised 4/18/2012 and 4/25/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Compressor, vehicle lifts and equipment — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1330-A-10 — bid due May 24, 2012 (advertised 4/25/2012
and 5/2/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Doors, automatic, maintain and repair — Department of Port Control — per C.O. Sec.
181.101 — bid due May 23, 2012 (advertised 4/25/2012 and 5/2/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per
C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due May 11, 2012 (advertised 4/18/2012 and 4/25/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fence installation, maintenance and repair — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Water and Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 395-09 — bid
due May 16, 2012 (advertised 4/18/2012 and 4/25/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fencing and gates, purchase, repair (Re-bid) — Department of Port Control — per Ord.
808-11 — bid due May 23, 2012 (advertised 4/25/2012 and 5/2/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heating, ventilation and air conditioning system maintenance and repair — Department of
Port Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due May 23, 2012 (advertised 4/25/2012 and
5/2/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Landscape materials and supplies (Re-bid) — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 —
bid due May 16, 2012 (advertised 4/18/2012 and 4/25/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marble emergency repairs at 1201 Lakeside Avenue (Re-bid) — Department of
Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 2081-06 — bid due May 11, 2012
(advertised 4/18/2012 and 4/25/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

627

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617

The City Record

26

Motors and pumps, electric — Department of Public Works — Division of Property
Management — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due May 18, 2012 (advertised 4/25/2012
and 5/2/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pipe repair couplings (Group A & B) — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water —
per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due May 17, 2012 (advertised 4/18/2012 and 4/25/2012) . . . . . . . . . .
Pool chemicals, re-location and transportation — Department of Public Works — Division
of Recreation — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due May 16, 2012 (advertised 4/18/2012
and 4/25/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tasers and related equipment — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police —
per C.O. Sec. 135.065 — bid due May 24, 2012 (advertised 4/25/2012 and 5/2/2012) . . . . . . . . . .
Towing and winching services — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1330-A-10 — bid due May 24, 2012 (advertised 4/25/2012
and 5/2/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tree trimming services — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public
Power — per Ord. 628-11 — bid due May 24, 2012 (advertised 4/25/2012 and 5/2/2012) . . . . . .
Virgin asphalt concrete — Department of Public Works — Division of Streets —
per Ord. 1715-11 — bid due May 16, 2012 (advertised 4/18/2012 and 4/25/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . .

April 25, 2012

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 618

City Planning Commission
Cedar Ave., (Between E. 76 St. & E. 80 St.) — Change Use and Height District (Ward(s) 5,6)
(O 746-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave., (Between E. 79 St. & E. 83 St. A) — Change Use, Area and Height District
(Ward 06) (O 747-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave., to Quincy Ave. (Between E. 82 St. & E. 83 St.) — Change Use, Area and Height
District (Ward 06) (O 748-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 117th St. (Southwest Corner Of Union Ave.) — Change Use and Area District (Ward 06)
(O 573-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 79th St. & Quincy Ave. — Change Use and Height District (Ward 06) (O 749-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 79th St. and West of E. 86 St. — Change Use District (Ward 06) (O 755-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 105th St. (Between Martin Luther King Drive and East Blvd.) — Honorary Designation
of “ Forest City Tennis Club Drive “ (Ward 08) (O 530-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (Pro) District — West 25 St. (Between Barber Ave. and Library
Ave.) — West 25th St. and Clark Ave. (East and West Sides) — Change Use, Area and
Height District (Ward 14) (O 285-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quebec Ave. (Between E. 103 St. & E. 105 St. , south of Cedar Ave.) — Change Use District
(Ward 06) (O 758-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave. & E. 93rd St. — Change Use District (Ward 06) (O 760-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave. (Between E. 79 St. & E. 82nd St.) — Change Use and Height District (Ward 06)
(O 759-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave. (Between E. 93rd St. & E. 105 St.) Change Use and Height District (Ward 06)
(O 761-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave., E. 79St., E. 71st St., Platt Ave., & Woodland Ave. — Change Use, Area and
Height District (Ward 05) (O 737-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd. (Between Parafine Ave. & South of Barber Ave.) — Change Use, Area and Height
District (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 277-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd. (East and West Sides) Near Buhrer Ave. and Kinkel Ave. — Change Use and Height
District (Ward 14) (O 279-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd. (Between Wade Ave. and Castle Ave.) — Change Use and Area District (Ward 14)
(O 278-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 65th St. & Storer Ave. (Northwest Corner) — Change Use District — Zoning (Ward
15) (O 1225-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave., & E. 79th St., — Change Use District (Ward 05) (O 757-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 610
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 623

. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617

Clerk of Council
Cleveland City Council Domain Name — Authorize payment by City Credit Card (O 574-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Summer Internship — agreements (O 575-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Exercise option to Renew Contract No. NF 2011 — 022 — lease — office space — Servisair
Usa, Inc. (O 390-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
Exercise option to Renew Contract No. NF 2011-037 — Space at North Cargo Facility Building —
Lease for Air Cargo Facility — Servisair Usa, Inc. (O 391-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622

Cleveland Metropolitan Housing Authority
Community Development Programs — Enter and Amend Contracts or Memorandums of
Understanding — Expend Funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — Cleveland
Metropolitan School District — Community Development Department — Cuyahoga
County (O 569-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

Cleveland Metropolitan School District
Community Development Programs — Enter and Amend Contracts or Memorandums of
Understanding — Expend Funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — Community D
evelopment Department — Cuyahoga County (O 569-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

628

April 25, 2012

The City Record

27

Educational, Recreational and Cultural Programs — School Buildings and Recreation Centers —
Neighborhood Leadership Institute (O 256-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621

Cleveland Public Power
Utilities Department — Amend Section 523.21 — CPP Rate — Remove Sunset (O 216-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620
Utilities Department — Contracts — Sourcelink, Ohio Llc — Customer Care and Billing System
Services (O 409-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Codified Ordinances
Amend Sect. 623.10 — Spray Painting Property (O 207-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enact New Section 131.67 — Standard and requirement contracts for general maintenance and
repair services of City Facilities (O 246-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spray Painting Property — Amend Section 623.10 — Safety Department (O 243-12) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Telecommunications Harassment and Threatening or Harassing Telecommunications —
Amend Sections 621.10 and 621.11 (O 270-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — Amend Section 523.21 — CPP Rate — Remove Sunset (O 216-12) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 614-T
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

Commemoration
37th Anniversary Of The Fall Of Saigon (R 604-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

Communications
City of Strongsville — Certified Copy of Resolution No . 2012-061 — Opposing a proposed
Tax by The City of Cleveland on Hotel Buses (F 583-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605

Community Development
Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds & Home Funds (O 566-12) . . . . . . . . .
Code Enforcement Program Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds —
Building and Housing Department — Code Enforcement Division (O 572-12) . . . . . . . . .
Community Development Programs — Enter and Amend Contracts or Memorandums of
Understanding — Expend Funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — Cleveland
Metropolitan School District — Cuyahoga County (O 569-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts — With nonprofits to assist existing Tenants keep leasing (O 405-12) . . . . . . . . . .
Demolition Program and Board-Up Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building and
Housing Department (O 567-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) And Chore Program — Expend CDBG
Funds — Aging Department (O 568-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

Community Development Block Grant Program
Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds & Home Funds — Community
Development Department (O 566-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Code Enforcement Program Administrative Expenses — Appropriate CDBG Funds —
Building and Housing Department — Code Enforcement Division — Community
Development Department (O 572-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development Programs — Enter and Amend Contracts or Memorandums of
Understanding — Expend Funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — Cleveland
Metropolitan School District — Community Development Department — Cuyahoga
County (O 569-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Demolition Program and Board-Up Program — Appropriate CDBG Funds — Building and
Housing Department — Community Development Department (O 567-12). . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) And Chore Program — Expend CDBG
Funds — Aging Department — Community Development Department (O 568-12) . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

Concession Agreements
Amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1578-11 — Food and Beverage Service in The Rotunda (O 79-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620

Condolences
Carter, Lindsey Weyland (R 591-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crowder , Ida B. Cook (R 590-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debose, Rev. Michael, Former Ohio State Representative (R 592-12) .
George, Paul H. (R 593-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hatzgigeorgiou, Helen (R 589-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sikora, Judge Peter M. (R 588-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

605
605
605
605
605
605

Congratulations
City Club of Cleveland — 100th Anniversary (R 596-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
Stewart, Marquyce T. (R 595-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
Traynor, Patrol Officer James (R 594-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605

629

The City Record

28

April 25, 2012

Contracts
Amend Section 3 Ord. No. 1603-11 — public improvement — Concrete — Roadways, Bus Pads,
Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Curb Ramps, Brick Streets (O 531-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program, 2012 — Youth Opportunities Unlimited —
Utilities Department (O 253-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Collinwood Recreation Center Improvements — Contract Pi201000000018 — Panzica Construction
Company — Public Works (Statement of Final Acceptance) (Ward 11) (F 586-12) . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development — With nonprofits to assist existing Tenants keep leasing (O 405-12) . . .
Community Development Programs — Enter and Amend Contracts or Memorandums of
Understanding — Expend Funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — Cleveland
Metropolitan School District — Community Development Department — Cuyahoga
County (O 569-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Computers, Mobile Data — Pen-Base , I Mobile — Division of Fire & EMS — Safety Department
(O 571-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cudell Recreation Center Master Plan — Phase One — Contract PI201000000058 — Precision
Engineering and Contracting Company — Public Works (Statement of Final Acceptance)
(Ward 16) (F 587-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enact New Section 131.67 — Standard and requirement contracts for general maintenance and
repair services of City Facilities (O 246-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69925 with Brown Eagle Construction, Llc — Lease
Office Space — Burke Lakefront Airport (O 392-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. NF 2011 — 022 — Lease — Office Space At CHIA —
Servisair Usa, Inc. (O 390-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. NF 2011-037 — Space at North Cargo Facility Building —
Lease for Air Cargo Facility — Servisair Usa, Inc. — CHIA (O 391-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — Sourcelink, Ohio Llc — Customer Care and Billing System Services
(O 409-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles and Apparatus — Purchase, Lease, Lease to Purchase — Public Works — Safety
Department (O 570-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 624
. . . . . . . . . . . . 613
. . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . 622

. . . . . . . . . . . . 608
. . . . . . . . . . . . 609

. . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . 621
. . . . . . . . . . . . 622
. . . . . . . . . . . . 622
. . . . . . . . . . . . 622
. . . . . . . . . . . . 613
. . . . . . . . . . . . 609

Cuyahoga County
Building and Housing Dept. — Apply & Accept 2012 County Foreclosure Grant for Demolitions,
Board Ups, and Lot Maintenance (O 269-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
Community Development Programs — Enter and Amend Contracts Or Memorandums Of
Understanding — Expend Funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — Cleveland
Metropolitan School District — Community Development Department (O 569-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

Economic Development Department
Apply & Accept A State of Ohio 166 Program Loan — Demolition Loan (O 455-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 623
El Hasa Temple No. 28 Shrine Temple — Building Renovations and Interior Improvements —
agreement (Ward(s) 5, 2, 6 NCF) (O 577-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Grant Agreement with Downtown Cleveland Alliance for the Expansion of the Downtown
Trolley Service (O 266-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621

Emergency Medical Service Division
Computers, Mobile Data — Pen-Base , I Mobile — contracts — Divisions of Fire & Ems — Safety
Department (O 571-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609

Environmental Protection Agency
Air Quality Division Operation — Financial Assistance — Air Quality Division —
Grants (O 564-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

Finance Department
Vehicles and Apparatus — purchase, lease, lease to purchase — Public Works — Safety
Department (O 570-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609

Fire Division
Assistance To Firefighters Grant — Prevention, 2010 — Grant — U.S. Department Of Homeland
Security (O 454-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Computers, Mobile Data — Pen-Base , I Mobile — contracts — Division of Fire & EMS — Safety
Department (O 571-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609

Franchises
Utilities Department — DPU — Cleveland Thermal, Llc (O 550-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Grants
Air Quality Division Operation — Financial Assistance — Air Quality Division — Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) (O 564-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

630

April 25, 2012

The City Record

29

Amend Ord. No. 812-10 — Port Security Grant Program (PSGP) 2009 — Materials, Equipment,
Supplies — Grants — Safety Department (O 398-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Assistance To Firefighters Grant — Prevention, 2010 — Fire Division — U.S. Department Of
Homeland Security (O 454-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Building and Housing Dept. — Apply & Accept 2012 County Foreclosure Grant For Demolitions,
Board Ups, and Lot Maintenance (O 269-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
Case Western Reserve University Public Health Partnership — Case Western Reserve University —
Health Department (O 565-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
Econ. Dev. — Agreement with Downtown Cleveland Alliance for the Expansion of the Downtown
Trolley Service (O 266-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
Economic Development — Apply & Accept A State of Ohio 166 Program Loan — Demolition Loan
(O 455-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 623
Ohio Pet Program — Ohio Pet Fund (O 397-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614-T

Health Department
Air Quality Division Operation — Financial Assistance — Air Quality Division — Grants —
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) (O 564-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
Burial and Cremation Services for Indigent Dead — Health Division (O 403-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Case Western Reserve University Public Health Partnership — Grant — Case Western Reserve
University — Health Department (O 565-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607

Lease Agreement
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69925 with Brown Eagle Construction, Llc — lease
office space — Burke Lakefront Airport (O 392-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to Renew Contract No. NF 2011 — 022 — Lease — Office Space At CHIA —
Servisair Usa, Inc. (O 390-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. NF 2011-037 — Space at North Cargo Facility Building —
Lease for Air Cargo Facility — Servisair USA, Inc. — CHIA (O 391-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminal Space — Flight Planning and Crew Layover Rest Area — Soluna Air Charter, Inc. —
Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 563-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

Licenses
Extension of Moratorium On Sweepstakes Cafe (O 538-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624

Liquor Permits
Bosworth Rd., 3590 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 17) (F 585-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Ave., 4995-97 — withdraw objection to stock transfer — repeal Res. 1727-11 (Ward
14) (R 543-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave., 3232 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 968-11 (Ward 03) (R 541-12)
Literary Ave., 806 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 542-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 4757 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 15) (R 544-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Rd., 16800 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 218-12
(Ward 01) (R 582-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Sq., 75 (Unit 101) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1166-11 (Ward 03)
(R 581-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1392 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 584-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

619
619
619
619

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605

Loans
Economic Development — Apply & Accept A State of Ohio 166 Program Loan — Demolition Loan
(O 455-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 623

Mayor’s Office
Extension of Moratorium on Sweepstakes Cafe (O 538-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624

Memoranda of Understanding
Community Development Programs — Enter and Amend Contracts or Memorandums of
Understanding — Expend Funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — Cleveland
Metropolitan School District — Community Development Department — Cuyahoga
County (O 569-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District
Community Development Programs — Enter and Amend Contracts or Memorandums of
Understanding — Expend Funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — Cleveland
Metropolitan School District — Community Development Department — Cuyahoga
County (O 569-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

631

The City Record

30

April 25, 2012

Permits
Extension of Moratorium on Sweepstakes Cafe (O 538-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624
Progressive Street Club — permit — 32 Flags — various locations — April 24 To May 25 —
America Flag For Peace (Ward 02) (O 578-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

Port Control Department
Exercise option to Renew Contract No. 69925 with Brown Eagle Construction, Llc — Lease
Office Space — Burke Lakefront Airport (O 392-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to Renew Contract No. NF 2011 — 022 — Lease — Office Space At CHIA —
Servisair USA, Inc. (O 390-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to Renew Contract No. NF 2011-037 — Space at North Cargo Facility Building —
Lease for Air Cargo Facility — Servisair USA, Inc. — CHIA (O 391-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminal Space — Flight Planning and Crew Layover Rest Area — Soluna Air Charter, Inc. —
Burke Lakefront Airport Division (O 563-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

Professional Services
Amend Ord. No. 812-10 — Port Security Grant Program (PSGP) 2009 — materials, equipment,
supplies — Grants — Safety Department (O 398-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Utilities Department — Contracts — Sourcelink, Ohio Llc — Customer Care and Billing System
Services (O 409-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Public Hearing (Notices)
Cedar Ave., (Between E. 76 St. & E. 80 St.) — Change Use and Height District — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 5,6) (O 746-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave., (Between E. 79 St. & E. 83 St. A) — Change Use, Area and Height District —
City Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 747-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave., to Quincy Ave. (Between E. 82 St. & E. 83 St.) — Change Use, Area and Height
District — City Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 748-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 79th St. & Quincy Ave. — Change Use and Height District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 06) (O 749-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 79th St. and West of E. 86 St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward
06) (O 755-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (Pro) District — West 25 St. (Between Barber Ave. And Library
Ave.) — West 25th St. and Clark Ave. (East And West Sides) — Change Use, Area and
Height District — City Planning Commission (Ward 14) (O 285-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quebec Ave. (Between E. 103 St. & E. 105 St. , south of Cedar Ave.) — Change Use District —
City Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 758-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave. & E. 93rd St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 06)
(O 760-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave. (Between E. 79 St. & E. 82nd St.) — Change Use and Height District —
City Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 759-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave. (Between E. 93rd St. & E. 105 St.) Change Use and Height District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 761-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave., E. 79St., E. 71st St., Platt Ave., & Woodland Ave. — Change Use, Area and
Height District — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 737-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd. (Between Parafine Ave. & South of Barber Ave.) — Change Use, Area and Height
District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 277-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd. (East and West Sides) Near Buhrer Ave. and Kinkel Ave. — Change Use and Height
District — City Planning Commission (Ward 14) (O 279-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd. (Between Wade Ave. And Castle Ave.) — Change Use and Area District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 14) (O 278-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 65th St. & Storer Ave. (Northwest Corner) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission — Zoning (Ward 15) (O 1225-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave., & E. 79th St., — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 05)
(O 757-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617

. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617

Public Improvements
Amend Section 3 Ord. No. 1603-11 — contracts — Concrete — Roadways, Bus Pads, Sidewalks,
Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Curb Ramps, Brick Streets (O 531-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624

Public Works
Amend Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1578-11 — Concession Agreements for Food and Beverage
Service In The Rotunda (O 79-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Collinwood Recreation Center Improvements — Contract PI201000000018 — Panzica Construction
Company (Statement of Final Acceptance) (Ward 11) (F 586-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cudell Recreation Center Master Plan — Phase One — Contract PI201000000058 — Precision
Engineering And Contracting Company (Statement of Final Acceptance) (Ward 16)
(F 587-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Educational, Recreational and Cultural Programs — School Buildings and Recreation Centers —
Neighborhood Leadership Institute — CMSD (O 256-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

632

. . . . . . . . . . . . 620
. . . . . . . . . . . . 605

. . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . 621

April 25, 2012

The City Record

31

Enact New Section 131.67 — Standard and requirement contracts for general maintenance and
repair services of City Facilities (O 246-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 621
Rams Youth Football and Cheerleading Sports Program — Activities for Youth — agreements —
E.M.S Rams Youth Development Group, Inc. (Ward 07 NCF) (O 576-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Vehicles And Apparatus — Purchase, Lease, Lease To Purchase — Safety Department (O 570-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609

Recognition
10th Annual Minority Men’s Health Fair (R 600-12). .
33rd Annual Tri-C Jazzfest Cleveland (R 598-12) . . . .
Fathers Active In The Hood (F.A.I.T.H.) (R 599-12) .
Kennedy,Mary (R 597-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

606
606
606
606

Recreation Centers
Collinwood Recreation Center Improvements — Contract PI201000000018 — Panzica Construction
Company — Public Works (Statement of Final Acceptance) (Ward 11) (F 586-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
Cudell Recreation Center Master Plan — Phase One — Contract PI201000000058 — Precision
Engineering and Contracting Company — Public Works (Statement of Final Acceptance)
(Ward 16) (F 587-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605

Regional Transit Authority
Community Development Programs — Enter and Amend Contracts or Memorandums of
Understanding — Expend Funds — Cleveland Metroparks District — Cleveland
Metropolitan School District — Community Development Department — Cuyahoga
County (O 569-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

Resolution of Support
April, As National Distracted Driving Awareness Month (R 579-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
Support Passage of H.R 4210 Restore Our Neighborhoods Act of 2012 (R 580-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
April, As National Distracted Driving Awareness Month (R 579-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
Support Passage of H.R 4210 Restore Our Neighborhoods Act of 2012 (R 580-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Safety Department
Amend Ord. No. 812-10 — Port Security Grant Program (PSGP) 2009 — materials, equipment,
supplies — Grants (O 398-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Amend Sect. 623.10 — Spray Painting Property (O 207-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614-T
Assistance To Firefighters Grant — Prevention, 2010 — Fire Division — Grant — U.S.
Department Of Homeland Security (O 454-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Computers, Mobile Data — Pen-Base , I Mobile — Contracts — Divisions Of Fire & EMS (O 571-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609
Ohio Pet Program — Grant — Ohio Pet Fund (O 397-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614-T
Spray Painting Property — Amend Section 623.10 (O 243-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Telecommunications Harassment and Threatening or Harassing Telecommunications —
Amend Sections 621.10 and 621.11 (O 270-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Vehicles and Apparatus — Purchase, Lease, Lease to Purchase — Public Works (O 570-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609

State of Ohio
Economic Development — Apply & Accept A State of Ohio 166 Program Loan — Demolition Loan
(O 455-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 623

Statement of Work Acceptance
Collinwood Recreation Center Improvements — Contract PI201000000018 — Panzica Construction
Company — Public Works (Statement of Final Acceptance) (Ward 11) (F 586-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
Cudell Recreation Center Master Plan — Phase One — Contract PI201000000058 — Precision
Engineering and Contracting Company — Public Works (Statement of Final Acceptance)
(Ward 16) (F 587-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605

Streets — Name
East 105th St. (Between Martin Luther King Drive and East Blvd.) — Honorary Designation
of “ Forest City Tennis Club Drive “ — City Planning Commission (Ward 08)
(O 530-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 623

Streets Division
Amend Section 3 Ord. No. 1603-11 — public improvement contracts — Concrete — Roadways,
Bus Pads, Sidewalks, Driveway Aprons, Curbs, Curb Ramps, Brick Streets (O 531-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624

633

The City Record

32

April 25, 2012

Tabled Legislation
Amend Sect. 623.10 — Spray Painting Property (O 207-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614-T
Ohio Pet Program — Grant — Ohio Pet Fund (O 397-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 614-T

Utilities Department
Amend Section 523.21 — CPP Rate — Remove Sunset (O 216-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Youth Summer Employment Program, 2012 — Contracts — Youth Opportunities
Unlimited (O 253-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts — Sourcelink, Ohio Llc — Customer Care and Billing System Services (O 409-12)
DPU — Cleveland Thermal, Llc (O 550-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Vehicles
Vehicles and Apparatus — Purchase, Lease, Lease to Purchase — Public Works — Safety
Department (O 570-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609

Ward 01
Debose, Rev. Michael, Former Ohio State Representative — Condolence (R 592-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
Miles Rd., 16800 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 218-12 —
Liquor Permit (R 582-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Ward 02
April, As National Distracted Driving Awareness Month (R 579-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
El Hasa Temple No. 28 Shrine Temple — Building Renovations and Interior Improvements —
agreement — Economic Development (Ward(s) 5, 2, 6 NCF) (O 577-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Progressive Street Club — permit — 32 Flags — various locations — April 24 to May 25 —
America Flag For Peace (O 578-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611

Ward 03
33rd Annual Tri-C Jazzfest Cleveland — Recognition (R 598-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kennedy,Mary — Recognition (R 597-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave., 3232 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 968-11 — liquor permit
(R 541-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Literary Ave., 806 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (Ward 03) (R 542-12) . .
Public Sq., 75 (Unit 101) — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1166-11 — liquor
permit (Ward 03) (R 581-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Schlecht, Jim — Appreciation (R 602-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd. (Between Parafine Ave. & South of Barber Ave.) — Change Use, Area and Height
District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 277-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Passage of H.R 4210 Restore Our Neighborhoods Act of 2012 (R 580-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Taseff, Damon — Appreciation (R 601-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Traynor, Patrol Officer James — Congratulations (R 594-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1392 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 584-12) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

617
612
606
605
605

Ward 05
33rd Annual Tri-C Jazzfest Cleveland — Recognition (R 598-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Ave., (Between E. 76 St. & E. 80 St.) — Change Use and Height District — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 5,6) (O 746-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
El Hasa Temple No. 28 Shrine Temple — Building Renovations and interior Improvements —
agreement — Economic Development (Ward(s) 5, 2, 6 NCF) (O 577-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lipuma, Tommy — Appreciation (R 603-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave., E. 79st., E. 71st St., Platt Ave., & Woodland Ave. — Change Use, Area and
Height District — City Planning Commission (O 737-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave., & E. 79th St., — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (O 757-10) .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617

Ward 06
April, As National Distracted Driving Awareness Month (R 579-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Ave., (Between E. 76 St. & E. 80 St.) — Change Use and Height District — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 5,6) (O 746-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave., (Between E. 79 St. & E. 83 St. A) — Change Use, Area and Height District —
City Planning Commission (O 747-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave., to Quincy Ave. (Between E. 82 St. & E. 83 St.) — Change Use, Area and Height
District — City Planning Commission (O 748-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 117th St. (Southwest Corner of Union Ave.) — Change Use and Area District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 573-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 79 St. & Quincy Ave. — Change Use and Height District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 06) (O 749-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 79th St. and West of E. 86 St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 06) (O 755-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

634

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617

April 25, 2012

The City Record

33

El Hasa Temple No. 28 Shrine Temple — Building Renovations and Interior Improvements —
agreement — Economic Development (Ward(S) 5, 2, 6 NCF) (O 577-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quebec Ave. (Between E. 103 St. & E. 105 St. , south of Cedar Ave.) — Change Use District —
City Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 758-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave. & E. 93rd St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 06)
(O 760-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave. (Between E. 79 St. & E. 82nd St.) — Change Use and Height District —
City Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 759-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave. (Between E. 93rd St. & E. 105 St.) Change Use and Height District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 761-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stewart, Marquyce T. — Congratulations (R 595-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Passage of H.R 4210 Restore Our Neighborhoods Act of 2012 (R 580-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Ward 07
Carter, Lindsey Weyland — Condolence (R 591-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
Rams Youth Football and Cheerleading Sports Program — Activities for Youth — agreements —
E.M.S Rams Youth Development Group, Inc. — Public Works (Ward 07 NCF)
(O 576-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Support Passage of H.R 4210 Restore Our Neighborhoods Act of 2012 (R 580-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Ward 08
April, As National Distracted Driving Awareness Month (R 579-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
East 105th St. (Between Martin Luther King Drive and East Blvd.) — Honorary Designation
of “ Forest City Tennis Club Drive “ — City Planning Commission (Ward 08)
(O 530-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 623
Support Passage of H.R 4210 Restore Our Neighborhoods Act of 2012 (R 580-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Ward 09
Fathers Active In The Hood (F.A.I.T.H.) — Recognition (R 599-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
Support Passage of H.R 4210 Restore Our Neighborhoods Act of 2012 (R 580-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Ward 11
April, As National Distracted Driving Awareness Month (R 579-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
Collinwood Recreation Center Improvements — Contract PI201000000018 — Panzica Construction
Company — Public Works (Statement Of Final Acceptance) (F 586-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605

Ward 12
April, As National Distracted Driving Awareness Month (R 579-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
Support Passage of H.R 4210 Restore Our Neighborhoods Act of 2012 (R 580-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Ward 14
Denison Ave., 4995-97 — withdraw objection to stock transfer — repeal Res. 1727-11 — liquor
permit (R 543-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — West 25 St. (Between Barber Ave. and Library
Ave.) — West 25th St. and Clark Ave. (East and West Sides) — Change Use, Area and
Height District — City Planning Commission (O 285-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd. (Between Parafine Ave. & South Of Barber Ave.) — Change Use, Area and Height
District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 277-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd. (East and West Sides) Near Buhrer Ave. and Kinkel Ave. — Change Use and Height
District — City Planning Commission (O 279-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd. (Between Wade Ave. and Castle Ave.) — Change Use and Area District — City
Planning Commission (O 278-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 619

. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617

Ward 15
37th Anniversary Of The Fall Of Saigon — Commemoration (R 604-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
April, As National Distracted Driving Awareness Month (R 579-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 4757 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 544-12) . . . .
W. 65th St. & Storer Ave. (Northwest Corner) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission — Zoning (O 1225-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 617

Ward 16
33rd Annual Tri-C Jazzfest Cleveland — Recognition (R 598-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cudell Recreation Center Master Plan — Phase One — Contract PI201000000058 — Precision
Engineering and Contracting Company — Public Works (Statement of Final Acceptance)
(F 587-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sikora, Judge Peter M. — Condolence (R 588-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Support Passage of H.R 4210 Restore Our Neighborhoods Act of 2012 (R 580-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

635

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

The City Record

34

April 25, 2012

Ward 17
Bosworth Rd., 3590 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 585-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
Crowder , Ida B. Cook — Condolence (R 590-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
Support Passage of H.R 4210 Restore Our Neighborhoods Act of 2012 (R 580-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 612

Ward 18
10th Annual Minority Men’s Health Fair — Recognition (R 600-12). . . . . . . .
City Club Of Cleveland — 100th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 596-12)
Hatzgigeorgiou, Helen — Condolence (R 589-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sikora, Judge Peter M. — Condolence (R 588-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

606
606
605
605

Ward 19
George, Paul H. — Condolence (R 593-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605

Water Division
Utilities Department — contracts — Sourcelink, Ohio Llc — Customer Care and Billing System
Services (O 409-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613

Zoning
Cedar Ave., (Between E. 76 St. & E. 80 St.) — Change Use and Height District — City
Planning Commission (Ward(s) 5,6) (O 746-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave., (Between E. 79 St. & E. 83 St. A) — Change Use, Area and Height District —
City Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 747-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave., to Quincy Ave. (Between E. 82 St. & E. 83 St.) — Change Use, Area and Height
District — City Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 748-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 117th St. (Southwest Corner of Union Ave.) — Change Use and Area District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 573-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 79 St. & Quincy Ave. — Change Use and Height District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 06) (O 749-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 79th St. and West of E. 86 St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission
(Ward 06) (O 755-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — West 25 St. (Between Barber Ave. And Library
Ave.) — West 25th St. and Clark Ave. (East and West Sides) — Change Use, Area and
Height District — City Planning Commission (Ward 14) (O 285-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quebec Ave. (Between E. 103 St. & E. 105 St. , south of Cedar Ave.) — Change Use District —
City Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 758-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave. & E. 93rd St. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 06)
(O 760-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave. (Between E. 79 St. & E. 82nd St.) — Change Use and Height District —
City Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 759-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave. (Between E. 93rd St. & E. 105 St.) Change Use and Height District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 06) (O 761-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quincy Ave., E. 79St., E. 71st St., Platt Ave., & Woodland Ave. — Change Use, Area and
Height District — City Planning Commission (Ward 05) (O 737-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd. (Between Parafine Ave. & South of Barber Ave.) — Change Use, Area and Height
District — City Planning Commission (Ward(s) 03, 14) (O 277-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd. (East and West Sides) Near Buhrer Ave. and Kinkel Ave. — Change Use and Height
District — City Planning Commission (Ward 14) (O 279-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd. (Between Wade Ave. and Castle Ave.) — Change Use and Area District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 14) (O 278-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 65th St. & Storer Ave. (Northwest Corner) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission — Zoning (Ward 15) (O 1225-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave., & E. 79th St., — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 05)
(O 757-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 610
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617

. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617
. . . . . . . . . . . . 617

Zoning Code
Extension of Moratorium on Sweepstakes Cafe (O 538-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 624

636

