The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

October the Twenty-Fourth, Two Thousand and Twelve

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings

3
11
11
14
14

16
26

Index

26

15
15
15
15

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..............................................16920 Throckley Avenue
44128
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ...................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli .................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley..................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Interim Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Interim Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry, President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President
Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Interim Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry; Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Interim Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Chairman; Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney;
Councilman Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Interim Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan – Courtroom 13A
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2012

Vol. 99

No. 5159

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2012
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Dow,
Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell,
Keane,
Kelley,
Polensek,
Reed.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Bran catelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Zone, Chair; Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

COMMUNICATIONS

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Kelley, Miller, Polensek, Westbrook.

File No. 1545-12.
From First Energy Service Company — Letter of Notification —
Inland Jordan Q11 & Q14 138 kV
Transmission Line, Loops to Clinic
Hospital
Substation
Project.
Received.

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell,
K.
Johnson,
Kelley,
Mitchell,
Sweeney, Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, Mitchell.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, October 22, 2012
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, the President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were: Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff, Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer, Valarie J. McCall, Chief
of Government Affairs, Chris Warren, Chief of Regional Development,
Maureen Harper, Chief of Communications, Andrea V. Taylor, Press
Secretary, Jenita McGowan, Chief of
Sustainability, Natoya J. Walker
Minor, Chief of Public Affairs, and
Interim Law Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Wasik, Butler, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Rybka,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Brown, Fumich, Ambroz, and Teresa Stevenson of Legislative Affairs.
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection.
Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Sweeney, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Mitchell.

1675

File No. 1546-12.
From First Energy Service Company — Application for Certificate,
Clinic Hospital Substation Project
— OPSB Case No. 11-2754-EL-BSB.
Received.
FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1547-12.
Re: 6363210 — C1, — Stock Application — New Look Beverage, LLC,
831 East 140th Street. Ward 10.
Received.
File No. 1548-12.
Re: 800360070155 — C1, C2 —
Transfer of Location Application —
7 Eleven Inc., d.b.a. 7 Eleven 36237,
1035 East 185th Street. Ward 11.
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1549-12—Judge Kathleen
O’Malley.
Res. No. 1550-12—Deacon Henry L.
Torrence.
Res. No. 1551-12—Bernice Hill.
Res. No. 1552-12—Spurgeon Westbrooks.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res.
No.
1553-12—The
Statler
Arms Apartments.
Res. No. 1554-12—Murtis Taylor
Human Services System — 64th
Anniversary.
Res. No. 1555-12—Rev. Dr. Rowland H. Crowder.
Res. No. 1556-12—Sgt. David Rutt,
Badge #9723.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1529-12.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of wireless
cards for data services on mobile computers to interface with the CRIS System, including maintenance, for the
Division of Information Technology

4

The City Record

and Services, Department of Finance,
for a period of one year with two oneyear options to renew exercisable by
the Director of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a one year period, with two one-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Finance, of the necessary items of wireless cards for data
services on mobile computers to
interface with the CRIS System,
including
maintenance,
in
the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Information
Technology and Services, Department of Finance. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 1511, RL 2012-60)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Tyco Simplex-Grinnell. Therefore,
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to make one or more
written requirement contracts with
Tyco
Simplex-Grinnell,
for
the
requirements for a period not to
exceed two years, with two one-year
options to renew, of the necessary
items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary to
maintain, repair, and expand the
integrated fire and security system,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a
unit basis, for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control.
The first of the one-year options to
renew may not be exercised without
additional legislative authority. If
such additional legislative authority
is granted and the first of the oneyear options to renew is exercised,
then the second of the one-year
options to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Port
Control, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process. (RQN 3001, RL 2012057)
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, and Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.

Ord. No. 1530-12.
By Council Members Keane and
Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts without competitive bidding with Tyco Simplex-Grinnell to
maintain, repair and expand the integrated fire and security system, for
the various divisions of Port Control,
for a period of two years with two oneyear options to renew, the first of
which requires additional legislative
authority.

Ord. No. 1531-12.
By Council Members J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works, to
enter into a property adoption agreement with The Putman Sculpture Collection to install and maintain the
Euclid’s Circle Sculpture in the David
E. Davis Sculpture Garden in Rockefeller Park.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

1676

October 24, 2012
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 and
Section 131.23 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into a property adoption agreement with The Putman
Sculpture Collection of Case Western Reserve University to beautify
and improve an area in the David
E. Davis Sculpture Garden in Rockefeller Park by installing and maintaining the Euclid’s Circle Sculpture, which shall remain the property of The Putman Sculpture Collection.
Section 2. That this property adoption shall not be construed as a conveyance of any right, title, or interest
in public property, but is the grant of
a privilege revocable at the will of
Council.
Section 3. That the property adoption agreement shall be prepared by
the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Properties, and Recreation,
City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1532-12.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. CT 7012 NF2010-024 with
Executive Caterers at Landerhaven,
Inc. to provide food and beverage services.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1847-08, passed January
26, 2009, as amended by Ordinance
1417-09, passed September 28, 2009, the
Director of Public Works entered into
Contract No. CT 7012 NF2010-024 with
Executive Caterers at Landerhaven,
Inc. to provide food and beverage services at the Public Auditorium; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1847-08,
passed January 26, 2009, as amended
by Ordinance 1417-09, passed September 28, 2009, requires further legislation before exercising the first option
to renew on this contract; and
Whereas, for the privilege of the
concession agreement, Executive
Caterers at Landerhaven, Inc. shall
pay the City an annual fee as specified in the contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. CT 7012 NF2010-024 for an
additional
year
with
Executive
Caterers at Landerhaven, Inc. to provide food and beverage services at
the Public Auditorium. This ordi-

October 24, 2012
nance constitutes the additional legislative authority required by Ordinance No. 1847-08, passed January
26, 2009, as amended by Ordinance
1417-09, passed September 28, 2009 to
exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Parks, Properties and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1533-12.
By Council Members J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Cleveland, Mitchell and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 559.14 and 559.15 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by various ordinances, relating to the Croatian and
the Hebrew Cultural Gardens.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 559.14, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1715-09,
passed May 10, 2010, and Section
559.15, as amended by Ordinance No.
109-56, passed February 11, 1957, are
amended to read as follows:
Section 559.14 Croatian Cultural
Garden
Beginning in the Westerly line of
the upper drive also known as East
Blvd., at a point located 35.00 feet
Southerly by rectangular measurement from its point of intersection
with the Westerly prolongation of the
main axis of the Shakespeare Garden;
thence Southerly along the Westerly
line of said upper drive (East Blvd.)
about 121.8 feet to a point; thence
Westerly 70.00 feet to a point being
65.00 feet perpendicular by rectangular measurement from the Northerly
line of the Hebrew Garden; thence
Southerly along said perpendicular
line to the Northerly line of Hebrew
Garden 65.00 feet to a point on said
Northerly line of the Hebrew Garden;
thence Westerly along the said
Northerly line of the Hebrew Garden
about 200.39 feet to an iron pipe in the
Easterly line of the lower drive also
known as Martin Luther King Jr.
Drive; thence Northerly along said
Easterly line of the lower drive (Martin Luther King Jr. Drive) 283.3 feet
to point located 60.00 feet Southerly
by rectangular measurement from the
Southerly line of the Hungarian Garden; thence Easterly along said line
parallel
and
distant
60.00
feet
Southerly with the Southerly line of
said Hungarian Garden (also 35.00
feet Southerly by rectangular measurement and parallel to the Westerly
prolongation of said main axis of the
Shakespeare Garden) about 326.00
feet to said upper drive (East Blvd.)
and the principal place of beginning.
Section 559.15 Hebrew Cultural Garden
Beginning at a stone monument at
the point of intersection of the center
line of East 102nd St. with the center

The City Record
line of Olivet Ave.; thence westerly
along the center line of said Olivet
Ave. 839.62 feet to a stone monument
in the center line of East 99th St.;
thence northerly along the center line
of said East 99th St. 18.00 feet to a
point; thence westerly at right angles
to the center line of East 99th St.
332.11 feet to a point; thence northwesterly on a line deflecting to the
right 59 degrees 08 minutes 30 seconds, 351.08 feet to an iron pipe in the
westerly line of the upper drive (East
Blvd.), which point is the principal
place of beginning and is also the
northeasterly corner of the Syrian
Garden; thence westerly along the
northerly line of the Syrian Garden
276.50 feet to an iron pipe in the easterly line of the lower drive (Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive); thence
northerly along the easterly line of
the lower drive (Martin Luther King
Jr. Drive) 358.00 feet to an iron pipe in
the southwesterly corner of the Croatian Garden; thence easterly along the
southerly line of the Croatian Garden
200.39 feet to a point; thence northerly
perpendicular to the southerly line of
the Croatian Garden 65 feet to a point;
thence easterly along a line parallel
to the southerly line of the Croatian
Garden about 70 feet to the westerly
line of the upper drive (East Blvd.);
thence southerly along the westerly
line of the upper drive (East Blvd.)
about 398.20 feet to the principal place
of beginning.
Section 2. That existing Section
559.14, as amended by Ordinance No.
1715-09, passed May 10, 2010, and existing Section 559.15, as amended by
Ordinance No. 109-56, passed February 11, 1957, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Properties, and Recreation,
City Planning, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1534-12.
By Council Members Cimperman
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Cuyahoga County Board of Health for
the 2013 Immunization Action Plan
Program; authorizing the Director to
charge and accept fees for this program; and authorizing one or more
agreements with Medicaid and Medicaid HMOs for the City to receive payments.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $95,340, and
any other funds as they become
available during the grant term,
from the Cuyahoga County Board of
Health, to conduct the 2013 Immunization Action Plan Program; that
the Director of Public Health is

1677

5
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes in the summary for
the grant.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in
File No. 1534-12-A, is made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
including the obligation to devote
program income from first and third
party billings, estimated at $10,000, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Health shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with Medicaid and Medicaid HMOs to receive
payments under this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Health is authorized to charge and
accept fees from participants of this
program and to deposit those fees into
a revolving fund which will be used to
provide additional materials equipment, supplies, and services under the
program described in the file, and the
funds are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Health shall deposit the grant
accepted under this ordinance into a
fund or funds designated by the
Director of Finance to implement the
program as described in the file and
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 7. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Health may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds and program income accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees on
Health and Human Services, Finance.
Ord. No. 1535-12.
By Council Members Dow, Conwell,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located mid-block between Euclid
Avenue and Chester Avenue on East
105th Street to Ronald McDonald
House of Cleveland, Inc., for purposes
of construction of additional parking;
authorizing the City’s retention of a
non-exclusive permanent easement
across the property for purposes of

6
ingress and egress onto East 105th
Street; authorizing the acquisition of
certain
non-exclusive
easement
rights from Ronald McDonald House
of Cleveland, Inc. for ingress and
egress purposes onto East 105th
Street; and to repeal Ordinance No.
1550-11, passed December 5, 2011,
relating to the Ronald McDonald
House.
Whereas, the City currently owns
an alleyway running mid-block, west
to east, which provides vehicular
access from the rear of Fire Station
No. 10 on Chester Avenue to East
105th Street; and
Whereas, Ronald McDonald House
of Cleveland, Inc. (“RMH”) is undertaking an expansion of its facilities
on land that abuts the City’s alleyway
on the south; and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Safety has requested the sale of the
City-owned property to RMH no
longer needed for public use and
located at 1942 East 105th Street for
additional parking for RMH; and
Whereas, to maintain access to and
from Fire Station No. 10 and East
105th Street, the City shall retain a
non-exclusive permanent easement
across said land as well as acquire a
non-exclusive permanent easement
across RMH-owned land to the south
of the alleyway, all at no cost to the
City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the following described
property is no longer needed for
public use:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF
PORTION OF P.P.N. 119-10-018
CITY OF CLEVELAND
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of the Original Hundred Acre Lot No. 401, and further bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
southerly line of Chester Avenue (86
feet wide) and the westerly line of
East 105th Street (width varies);
Thence South 01° 04' 48" East along
the westerly line of East 105th Street,
160.03 feet to the southeasterly corner
of land conveyed to 1942 East 105th
Street, LLC by the deed dated December 23, 2008 and recorded in Auditor’s
File Number 200812231025 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records and being
the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BEGINNING
of
the
easement
herein
described;
Thence South 01° 04' 48" East continuing along the westerly line of
East 105th Street and a westerly line
of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by the deed dated March 21, 1985
and recorded in Volume 85-1262, Page
37 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records,
26.73 feet to the northeasterly corner
of land conveyed to Ronald McDonald
House of Cleveland, Inc. (formerly
Children’s Oncology Services of NE
Ohio, Inc.) by the deed dated July 31,
1992 and recorded in Volume 92-26663,
Page 47 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records;

The City Record
Thence South 88° 55' 12" West
along the northerly line of land so
conveyed to the Ronald McDonald
House of Cleveland, Inc., 241.00 feet to
a point;
Thence North 27° 52' 18" East, 35.12
feet to a point;
Thence North 88° 55' 12" East, 24.00
feet to a westerly line of land so conveyed to said 1942 East 105th Street,
LLC;
Thence South 01° 04' 48" East along
a westerly line of land so conveyed to
1942 East 105th Street, LLC, 4.00 feet
to the southwesterly corner thereof;
Thence North 88° 55' 12" East along
the southerly line of land so conveyed
to 1942 East 105th Street, LLC, 200.00
feet to the westerly line of East 105th
Street and the Principal Place of
Beginning and containing 0.1456
acres of land.
Section 2. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to sell the abovedescribed property to RMH at a price
not less than fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control,
taking into account all restrictions,
reversionary interests and similar
encumbrances as may be placed by
the City of Cleveland in the deed of
conveyance. The City will retain one
or more ingress and egress easements
over a portion of the above-described
property for the purpose of accessing
Fire Station No. 10.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain necessary provisions, including
restrictive reversionary interests as
may be specified by the Board of Control or Director of Law, which shall
protect the parties as their respective
interests require and shall specifically contain a provision against the
erection of any advertising signs or
billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio,1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire certain non-exclusive easement rights from RMH in and to the
premises described for the purposes
of ingress and egress onto East 105th
Street:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF
EASEMENT OVER
PORTION OF P.P.N. 119-10-015
RONALD McDONALD HOUSE OF
CLEVELAND, INC.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of the Original Hundred Acre Lot No. 401, and further bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
southerly line of Chester Avenue (86
feet wide) and the westerly line of
East 105th Street (width varies);
Thence South 01° 04' 48" East along
the westerly line of East 105th Street,
186.76 feet to a southeasterly corner of
land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by the deed dated March 21, 1985
and recorded in Volume 85-1262, Page
37 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records
and being the PRINCIPAL PLACE
OF BEGINNING of the easement herein described;

1678

October 24, 2012
Thence South 01° 04' 48" East continuing along the westerly line of
East 105th Street, 15.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 88° 55' 12" West,
241.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 01° 04' 48" West, 15.00
feet to the southerly line of land conveyed to said City of Cleveland;
Thence North 88° 55' 12" East along
the southerly line of land so conveyed
to the City of Cleveland, 241.00 feet to
the westerly line of East 105th Street
and the Principal Place of Beginning
and containing 0.0829 acres of land.
Section 5. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to execute on
behalf of the City all documents necessary to acquire certain rights in and
to the property.
Section 6. That Ordinance No. 155011, passed December 5, 2011, is
repealed.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Capital Projects, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Safety, Public Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1536-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
Jay Avenue Development Corporation or its designee to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the renovation and site
improvements of 2515 Jay Avenue and
other associated costs necessary to
redevelop the property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a forgivable loan
agreement under the Vacant Property Initiative with Jay Avenue
Development
Corporation
or
its
designee in an amount of $180,000,
and a non-forgivable loan agreement
in an amount of $540,000 to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the renovation and
site
improvements
of
2515
Jay
Avenue and other associated costs
necessary to redevelop the property.
Section 2. That the terms of the loan
shall be according to the terms set
forth in the Summary contained in
File No. 1536-12-A, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at the public hearing on
this legislation, and are approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the costs of any
funding under this ordinance, including forgivable and nonforgivable portions, shall not exceed $720,000, and
shall be paid from Fund No. 17 SF 008,
RQS 9501, RL 2012-151.

October 24, 2012
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept such collateral as set forth in
the file referenced above in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
loan agreement, security instrument,
or other document shall be prepared
and approved by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept monies in repayment of the
loan and to deposit the monies in
Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
fees under federal regulations and
the fees are appropriated to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of

The City Record
the loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from Fund
No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. The contract authorized
in this legislation will require the
recipient of financial assistance to
work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities
related to the City’s contracts, and
place special emphasis on the hard to
employ, including but not limited to

7
the disabled and persons who have
been convicted of or have pled guilty
to a criminal offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances relate to the duties for the
particular job sought.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

Ord. No. 1537-12.
By Council Members Zone and Kelley (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 56 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 610-12, passed May 21, 2012, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 56 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No. 61012, passed May 21, 2012, is amended to read as follows:
Section 56. Division of Police; Various Positions
The annual salaries of persons appointed to the following classifications within the Division of Police shall be fixed
by the Director of Public Safety within the limits established in the following schedules:

1.
2.
3.

Police Stress Consultant ..........................................................
Occupational Medical Director ...............................................
Public Safety Information Technology Manager .........

Minimum
$60,000.00
43,107.75
65,000.00

Maximum
$105,000.00
82,687.47
110,000.00

Section 2. That existing Section 56 of Ordinance No. 1689-11, passed November 28, 2011, as amended by Ordinance No.
610-12, passed May 21, 2012, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Human Resources, Finance, Law; Committees on Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, Finance.

Ord. No. 1540-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Kelley
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from United States Environmental Protection Agency to conduct
a brownfield revolving loan program
to make loans or grants to assist with
certain environmental remediation
costs for eligible projects; and authorizing the director to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies,
entities, or individuals to implement
the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in an amount up to $1,000,000,
from the United States Environmental Protection Agency to conduct a
brownfield revolving loan program
to make loans or grants to assist
with certain environmental remediation costs for eligible projects; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are

appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the executive summary
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
a public hearing on this legislation
and set forth in File No. 1540-12-A, is
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds in the
required amount of 20% of the grant
amount, which is estimated to be
$200,000, is approved in all respects,
and shall not be changed without
additional
legislative
authority.
(RQS 9501, RL 2012-156)
Section 3. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts with
various agencies, entities, or individuals to provide loans or grants in
amounts not to exceed $250,000 to
assist with certain environmental
remediation costs for eligible projects.
Section 4. That the terms of the
loans or grants shall be according to
the terms set forth in the file.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept the collateral determined by
the Director to secure repayment of
the loans. Any loan agreements, security instruments, or other documents

1679

shall be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
fees under federal regulations and
the fees are appropriated to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of
the loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from a
loan fees funds to be designated by
the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That the contracts and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transactions authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. That the loan or grant
contracts authorized in this legislation will require the recipient of
financial assistance to work with The
Workforce Investment Board for
Workforce Area No. 3 to identify and
solicit qualified candidates for job
opportunities related to the City’s contracts, and place special emphasis on
the hard to employ, including but not
limited to the disabled and persons
who have been convicted of or have
pled guilty to a criminal offense,
unless the criminal conviction or
related circumstances relate to the
duties for the particular job sought.
Section 9. That any loan or grant
entered into under this ordinance

8
shall be authorized when approved by
the Cleveland Citywide Development
Corporation and the Mayor, and the
Council Member in whose ward the
project is being given assistance
shall submit a letter of support for the
project. The Director of Economic
Development shall notify the Council
Member in whose ward the project
will occur before it has been approved
by the Cleveland Citywide Development Corporation.
Section 10. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept the grant funds authorized by
this ordinance and deposit the monies
into a fund designated by the Director
of Finance; and to accept repayment
of the loans and to deposit the monies
into a fund or fund to be designated
by the Director of Finance.
Section 11. That the costs of each
loan or grant shall be paid from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the proceeds of the grant accepted
under this ordinance, the cash match,
and from the fund or fund to which
are credited any loan repayments
made from loans authorized under
this ordinance, and are appropriated
for this purpose.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1543-12.
By Council Members Keane and
Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 135.42 and 405.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
292-07, passed June 11, 2007 and Ordinance No. 1971-06, passed July 2, 2008,
relating to contracts for towing and
impounding and towing fees.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 135.42 and
405.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 292-07, passed June
11, 2007 and Ordinance No. 1971-06,
passed July 2, 2008, are amended to
read as follows:
Section 135.42 Contracts for Towing, Storage and Disposal of Impounded Motor Vehicles
(a) Contracts Authorized. The
Director of Public Safety may enter
into contract for the following services:
(1) For the towing of vehicles and
motor vehicles, including commercial
vehicles, authorized to be impounded
by these Codified Ordinances;
(2) For the storage of impounded
vehicles and motor vehicles;
(3) For the disposal and salvaging
of impounded vehicles and motor
vehicles that are unclaimed or abandoned.
(b) Term. The term of any contract
authorized by this section shall not
exceed two (2) years with one (1) two

The City Record
(2) year option to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Public Safety if
authorized by additional legislative
authority.
(c) Salvage Vehicle Proceeds. Each
contract for the towing of non-commercial or commercial vehicles shall
contain a provision that provides that
the division of monies received when
vehicles are salvaged shall be as follows: the towing firm that impounded
the vehicle shall be paid thirty percent (30%); of the salvage proceeds.
The storage company shall be paid
sixty percent (60%); of the proceeds,
not to exceed the amount authorized
for its services in these Codified Ordinances. The City of Cleveland shall be
paid ten percent (10%); of the proceeds, and shall also receive any
monies that are not paid to either the
towing or storage firms because the
percentage to which they would otherwise be entitled exceeds the amount
authorized for their services in these
Codified Ordinances.
(d) Commercial Tow Rates. Each
contract entered into under the
authority of division (a)(1) for the
towing of commercial vehicles shall
require that the tower provide to the
Director of Public Safety its schedule
of commercial towing rates, which
shall not be higher than those
charged to its most favored customers. The Director of Public Safety
shall have the right to audit the
records of each commercial tower to
verify compliance with this requirement, and may by contract impose
sanctions on any vendor that fails to
comply, up to cancellation of the contract. No changes to a commercial
tower’s schedule of rates shall take
effect until thirty (30) days after
written notice to the Director of Public Safety of the revised schedule.
(e) Payment for Process Tows and
Other Costs by the Division of Police
Authorized. Each contract for the
towing of motor vehicles entered into
under the authority of this section:
(1) Shall provide that the Division
of Police shall pay the costs of towing
any non-commercial or commercial
vehicle in any case in which the vehicle was impounded for processing by
the Division of Police and the person
reclaiming the vehicle is the victim of
a crime and is not liable for the towing fees under these Codified Ordinances; and
(2) May provide that the Division of
Police pay the costs of disposal of
solid wastes contained in impounded
vehicles or incidental to the impoundment, and the costs of disposal of nonsalvageable watercraft, vehicles or
items, under such conditions as the
Director of Public Safety may specify
in the contract.
The costs authorized to be paid by
the Division of Police under this division shall be paid from the proper
appropriation account as determined
by the Director of Finance.
(f) Disposal Firms’ Qualifications.
Any
contract
for
the
services
described in division (a)(3) of this
section shall be performed by a motor
vehicle salvage dealer as defined in
RC 4738.01 or a scrap metal processor
as defined in RC 4737.05.
Section 405.06 Impounding and
Towing Fees
(a) In addition to the storage fee
provided for in Section 405.04, the following fees shall be assessed against
the owner or other person claiming an
impounded vehicle:

1680

October 24, 2012
(1) An impound fee of thirty dollars
($30.00), except that the impound fee
shall be reduced to ten ($10.00) dollars for a person reclaiming a recovered stolen vehicle.
(2) A towing fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), except that the towing
fee shall be reduced to fifty dollars
($50.00) for a person reclaiming a
recovered stolen vehicle, and shall be
increased to one hundred and fifty
dollars ($150.00) for a person reclaiming a vehicle impounded incident to
an arrest.
The
towing
charge
shall
be
increased by twenty dollars ($20.00)
if a dolly or flatbed is used or if a tire
or tires are changed.
(b) No towing or impounding fees
shall be charged when the vehicle is
the property of the victim of a crime
and such vehicle is being held by the
Division of Police for processing.
Section 2. That existing Sections
135.42 and 405.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 292-07,
passed June 11, 2007 and Ordinance
No. 1971-06, passed July 2, 2008, are
hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 1538-12.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of
Brookpark Road and Relocated Grayton Road.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Brookpark Road and Relocated Grayton Road, as described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion of the following described real
property:
Vacation of a Portion of
Brookpark Road
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Original
Rockport Township Section No. 4,
Original Middleburg Township Section No. 20, Lot No. 1 and Original Middleburg Township Section No. 11, Lot
No. 6. Also being part of Brookpark
Road as dedicated in Volume 118,
Page 24, Volume 127, Page 29 and Volume 130, Pages 152-154 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records, being
more definitely described as follows;
Commencing at a 1" iron pin found
in a monument box at the intersection
of the centerline of Relocated Brookpark Road and the centerline of Relocated Old Grayton Road as shown on

October 24, 2012
Centerline Survey Plat recorded in
Volume 313, Pages 97-99 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence, along the centerline of
Relocated Brookpark Road, along the
arc of a curve which deflects to the
left, 126.82 feet, said curve having a
radius of 674.07 feet, a central angle
of 10° 46' 47", and a chord of 126.63
feet which bears North 64° 41' 07"
East;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
South 30° 42' 17" East, 50.00 feet to the
southerly right of way of Relocated
Brookpark Road and True Point of
Beginning for the parcel herein
described, said point also being in the
northerly right of way of Brookpark
Road;
Thence, along the northerly right of
way of Brookpark Road, North 89° 45'
56" East, 1192.03 feet;
Thence, continuing along the
northerly right of way of Brookpark
Road, North 89° 54' 00" East, 2217.91
feet to the southerly right of way of
Relocated Brookpark Road;
Thence, along the southerly right
of way of Relocated Brookpark Road,
South 72° 01' 22" East, 71.27 feet;
Thence, continuing along the
southerly right of way of Relocated
Brookpark Road, along the arc of a
curve which deflects to the left, 497.83
feet to the southerly right of way of
Brookpark Road, said curve having a
radius of 1577.89 feet, a central angle
of 18° 04' 39", and a chord of 495.77
feet which bears South 81° 03' 42"
East;
Thence, along the southerly right
of way of Brookpark Road, South 89°
54' 00" West, 2775.16 feet;
Thence, continuing along the
southerly right of way of Brookpark
Road, South 89° 45' 56" West, 1559.33
feet to the southerly right of way of
Relocated Brookpark Road;
Thence, along the southerly right
of way of Relocated Brookpark Road,
North 89° 43' 19" East, 0.80 feet;
Thence, continuing along the
southerly right of way of Relocated
Brookpark Road, along the arc of a
curve which deflects to the left, 384.51
feet to the point of beginning, said
curve having a radius of 724.07 feet, a
central angle of 30° 25' 36", and a
chord of 380.01 feet which bears North
74° 30' 31" East;
Containing within said bounds
8.5278 acres (371,472 square feet) of
land as surveyed by KS Associates,
Inc. under the supervision of Trevor
A. Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No.
7730 in May 2012.
Bearings are based on Ohio State
Plane, North Zone NAD83(1995) Grid
North.
Vacation of a Portion of
Relocated Grayton Road
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Original
Rockport Township Section No. 4.
Also being that part of Orchard Glen
Subdivision recorded in Volume 62,
Page 12 of the Cuyahoga County Map
Records, West Lawn Subdivision
recorded in Volume 70, Page 28 of the
Cuyahoga County Map Records and
vacated West Lawn Avenue as recorded in Volume 195, Page 75 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records conveyed
to the City of Cleveland, being more
definitely described as follows;
Commencing at a 1" iron pin found
in a monument box at the intersection
of the centerline of Relocated Brookpark Road and the centerline of Relo-

The City Record
cated Old Grayton Road as shown on
Centerline Survey Plat recorded in
Volume 313, Pages 97-99 of the Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence, along the centerline of
Relocated Brookpark Road, along the
arc of a curve which deflects to the
left, 126.82 feet, said curve having a
radius of 674.07 feet, a central angle
of 10° 46' 47" and a chord of 126.63 feet
which bears North 64° 41' 07" East;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
South 30° 42' 17" East, 50.00 feet to the
southerly right of way of Relocated
Brookpark Road, said point also
being in the northerly right of way of
Brookpark Road;
Thence, along the northerly right of
way of Brookpark Road, North 89° 45'
56" East, 1192.03 feet;
Thence, continuing along the
northerly right of way of Brookpark
Road, North 89° 54' 00" East, 140.12
feet to the westerly right of way of
Relocated Grayton Road and the True
Point of Beginning for the parcel
herein described;
Thence, along the westerly right of
way of Relocated Grayton Road,
North 02° 02' 24" East, 506.28 feet to
the southerly right of way of Relocated Brookpark Road;
Thence, along the southerly right
of way of Relocated Brookpark Road,
South 88° 55' 58" East, 182.57 feet;
Thence, continuing along the
southerly right of way of Relocated
Brookpark Road, North 88° 50' 49"
East, 29.44 feet to the easterly right of
way of Relocated Grayton Road;
Thence, along the easterly right of
way of Relocated Grayton Road,
South 04° 38' 33" East, 52.93 feet;
Thence, continuing along the easterly right of way of Relocated Grayton Road, South 00° 05' 29" East,
449.98 feet to the northerly right of
way of Brookpark Road;
Thence, along the northerly right of
way of Brookpark Road, South 89° 54'
00" West, 235.00 feet to the point of
beginning.
Containing within said bounds
2.6071 acrea (113,564 square feet) of
land as surveyed by KS Associates,
Inc. under the supervision of Trevor
A. Bixler, Professional Surveyor No.
7730 in May 2012.
Bearings are based on Ohio State
Plane, North Zone NAD83(1995) Grid
North.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Res. No. 1539-12.
By Council Members Cimperman
Miller, Cleveland and Kelley (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of Mulberry Street N.W. (66.0 feet wide).
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Mulberry Street N.W., as
described; and

1681

9
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion of the following described real
property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being all that portion of
Mulberry Street N.W. (66.0 feet wide)
extending southeasterly from the
east line of Winslow Avenue N.W.
(66.0 feet wide) to the west line of
Detroit Avenue N.W. (66.0 feet wide).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1541-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 7 of Ordinance No. 140712, passed October 15, 2012, relating to
a grant from the Clean Ohio Conservation Program and option to purchase agreements with Concrete, Inc.
and Jerome T. Osborne for properties
needed for the Stage 3 of the Towpath
Trail Project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 7 of
Ordinance No. 1407-12, passed October 15, 2012 is amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant from the Clean
Ohio Conservation Program, or its
successor or designee, for the Towpath Trail Stage 3 Project; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the file mentioned below.
Section 7. That the consideration to
be paid for this property shall not
exceed fair market value as determined by the Board of Control which
shall not exceed $500,000.00.
Section 2. That existing Sections 1
and 7 of Ordinance No. 1407-12, passed
October 15, 2012 is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the

The City Record

10
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1544-12.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance of a Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Permit to Robert
Harris to engage in peddling in Ward
4.
Whereas, pursuant to Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights of
way outside of the Central Business
District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the request of to engage in peddling to Robert Harris outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow Robert Harris peddle
in Ward 4; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances to allow
to Robert Harris to engage in
mobile peddling in the public rights
of way of Ward 4 at 8804 Buckeye
Road.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons
named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the privilege granted may be revoked at any time by this
Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1542-12.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 10202
Lorain Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 1038-12 objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 10202
Lorain Avenue by Resolution No.
1038-12 adopted by the Council on
August 8, 2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above

renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Lehigh Gas
Ohio, LLC, DBA BP AM PM, 10202
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
50989840180 be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1038-12, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 670-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Zone and Kelley.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 347.17 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 944-08,
passed October 13, 2008, relating to
check cashing businesses, short-term
loan lenders, small loan lenders, and
mortgage loan lenders.
Approved by Directors Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1259-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
known as Permanent Parcel Nos. 14223-005 and 142-23-006 to Waterford
One, LLC, holding company for the
Gebauer Company, or its designee, for
purposes of constructing a new
access driveway and to install fencing for Gebauer Company.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Economic Development, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee
on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Community
and
Economic
Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1682

October 24, 2012
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 910-12.
By Council Members Polensek,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of Amsterdam Road N.E. and of a portion of
Syracuse Avenue N.E.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee
on City Planning; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1066-12.
By Council Members Dow, Miller,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of East
66th Place (12 feet wide), extending
from the northerly right of way line
of Lexington Avenue N.E. (60 feet
wide), northerly to its terminus with
that vacated portion of East 66th
Place as shown in City of Cleveland
ordinance 914-07 passed August 8,
2007.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee
on City Planning; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1068-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of West
20th Street and a portion of Moore
Court.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee
on City Planning; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1338-12.
By Council Members Kelley and
Miller.
An emergency resolution approving the Solid Waste Management
Plan for the Cuyahoga County Solid
Waste Management District.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Law; Relieved of Committee
on City Planning; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service, Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 1 after “Plan”
insert “Update (2013-2028)”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final adoption.

The City Record

October 24, 2012
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:50 p.m. to meet on Monday, October 29, 2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

October 17, 2012
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, October 17,
2012 at 10:46 a.m. with Interim Director Langhenry presiding.
Interim
Director
Present:
Langhenry, Directors Dumas, WithSmith,
Cox,
Butler,
Rush,
ers,
Southerington,
Acting
Director
Thornton, Directors Fumich and
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Others: L. Peculis, Acting Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 531-12.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of September, 2012 in the amount of
$49,774.44, attached and made a part
of
this
resolution
is
received,
approved and ordered filed.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Rush, Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 532-12.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the

report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byduring
the
month
of
products
August, 2012 in the amount of
$13,684.08, attached and made a part
of
this
resolution
is
received,
approved and ordered filed.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Rush, Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 533-12.
By Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1036-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 8, 2007, and Board of Control
No.
532-11,
adopted
Resolution
November 9, 2011, the City, through
its
Director
of
Public
Utilities,
into
City
Contract
No.
entered
PS2011*304 with Black & Veatch
Corporation for general IT and
billing system support for the Customer Care and Billing (“CC&B”)
system,
in
the
amount
of
and
approved
the
$1,700,000.00,
employment of Apple AGC Consultants, LLC (CSB/MBE) as a subconsultant, among others, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities; and
Whereas, by its August 23, 2012
letter, Black & Veatch Corporation
requested the City’s consent to
employ two additional subconsultants, increase the participation of a
previously approved subconsultant,
and removing Apple AGC Consultants, LLC (CSB/MBE) as a subconsultant because its services are
no longer required; and
Whereas, the City desires to modify City Contract No. PS2011*304 to
include additional professional services to implement the new Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District
storm water charges within the
CC&B system, and to render IT management and technical support, as
proposed by Black & Veatch Corporation in its September 17, 2012 letter; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution
No.
532-11,
adopted
November 9, 2011, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1036-07, passed
August 8, 2007, authorizing a contract with Black & Veatch Corporation for general IT and billing system support for the Customer Care
and Billing system for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities, is amended by increasing the
participation
of
Om
Consulting
Group,
LLC
(CSB/MBE)
from
$160,000.00 (9.412%) to $450,000.00
(10.204%),
and
by
deleting
the
approval of subconsultant Apple
AGC Consultants, LLC (CSB/MBE).
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter
into a first modification to City Contract No. PS2011*304 with Black &
Veatch Corporation, on the basis of
its proposal dated September 17,
2012, for performance of the abovementioned additional services and to
increase the fees for all services by
$2,710,000.00 to $4,410,000.00.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of

1683

11
Cleveland that the employment of
the following additional subconsultants by Black & Veatch Corporation for the above-mentioned additional services is approved:
Work
Percentage

Subconsultant

Milestone Utility Services,
$53,000.00
Inc.
1.202%
Split Rock Consulting

$88,000.00
1.995%

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Rush, Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 534-12.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Terrace Construction Co.,
Inc. for the public improvement of
constructing and repairing catch
basins and manholes at various locations, base bid items including 10%
contingency allowance, for the Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
received on August 30, 2012, under
the authority of Section 129.291 of
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, upon a unit basis for the
improvements to be performed as
ordered during the period of one (1)
year starting upon execution of a
contract, at the unit prices set forth
in the bid, which on the basis of the
estimated work to be done would
amount to $407,869.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Public
Utilities is requested to enter into a
public improvement by requirement
contract for the improvement.
The
public
improvement
by
requirement contract shall further
provide that the contractor shall perform all the City’s requirements for
the work as may be ordered under
delivery orders separately certified
against the public improvement by
requirement contract, whether the
same shall be less than the total
estimate of work to be performed
under the contract or shall exceed
the same by not more than ten percent.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Terrace Construction Co., Inc. for the
above-mentioned
public
improvement by requirement contract is
approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

CSB/MBE/FBE
WORK

Rockport Construction
CSB/FBE
$63,400.00(15.544%)
The Vallejo Co.

CSB/MBE
$59,000.00(14.465%)

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Rush, Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.

The City Record

12
Resolution No. 535-12.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Dionex Corporation for an
estimated quantity of the purchase
of Ion Chromatograph and Appurtenances, Item 1, all items, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, received on August
17, 2012, under the authority of Section 129.28 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the order
quantities
would
amount
to
$80,650.91 (Net 30, 1%, 10 Days), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a contract for the items.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Rush, Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 536-12.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, Resolution No. 469-12,
adopted by this Board on September
12, 2012, under the authority of Ordinance No. 452-11, passed May 16, 2011
by
the
Cleveland
City
Council,
authorized the Director of Public
Works to enter into contract with
Envirocom Construction, Inc., for
the public improvement of Kovacic
Recreation Center Roof and Locker
Room Improvements in the aggregate amount of $531,450.00, and
approved
various
subcontractors;
and
Whereas, Envirocom Construction,
Inc. has requested the City’s consent
to remove and to add certain firms
as subcontractors and to modify the
participation of certain previously
approved subcontractors for the project; and
Whereas,
the
Director
of
the
Office of Equal Opportunity has
determined that Envirocom Construction, Inc. has made a good-faith
effort to increase its bid commitment for MBE/FBE/CSB subcontractor participation in the project
by the removal and addition of certain subcontractors; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 469-12, adopted by
this Board September 12, 2012, authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into contract with EnviroCom Construction, Inc. for the public improvement of Kovacic Recreation Center Roof and Locker Room
Improvements, is amended by deleting
“Expert
Construction”
and
“Cleveland V-Con” from the list of
approved subcontractors to EnviroCom Construction, by approving the
employment
of
“Total
Roofing
(CSB/FBE)”,
“LB
Construction
(CSB/MBE)”, “Pearlrock Mechanical”, “Gratton Building Products”
and “Concord Tile” as additional
subcontractors, and by approving
and substituting the participation
amounts stated below respectively
for
the
following
previously
approved and additional subcontractors:
SUBCONTRACTORS

Warren Roofing

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE
$75,000.00
14.12%

October 24, 2012

Total Roofing (CSB/FBE) $50,000.00
9.41%

Subcontractors

LB Construction
(CSB/MBE)

Cook Paving &
Construction

$43,154.00
8.12%

Landmark Plumbing
(CSB/FBE)

$27,500.00
5.17%

Tucker, Grubbs Construction
(CSB/MBE)
$19,500.00
3.67%
Pearlrock Mechanical

Work Best Electric
(CSB/FBE)

Corporate Floors

$15,800.00
2.97%

$15,500.00
2.92%
$11,000.00
2.07%

Gratton Building Products $ 4,800.00
0.90%
Concord Tile

$ 2,250.00
0.42%

Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
469-12 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Rush, Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 537-12.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of The Shelly Company, for
the public improvement of grinding
city streets, all items, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Works, received on March 23,
2011, under the authority of Ordinance No. 792-12, passed by the
Cleveland City Council on July 11,
2012, upon a unit basis for the
improvements to be performed as
ordered during the period of 18
months starting upon execution of a
contract, at the unit prices set forth
in the bid, which on the basis of the
estimated work to be done would
amount to $1,104,000.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Public
Works is requested to enter into a
public improvement by requirement
contract for the improvement.
The
public
improvement
by
requirement contract shall further
provide that the contractor will perform all the City’s requirements for
the work as may be ordered under
delivery orders separately certified
against the public improvement by
requirement contract, whether the
same shall be less than the total
estimate of work to be performed
under the contract or shall exceed
the same by not more than ten percent.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by The
Shelly Company for the above-mentioned
public
improvement
by
requirement contract is approved:

1684

CSB/MBE/FBE
Amount/Percentage

CSB/FBE
$100,000.00/9.06%

Midland Concrete and Sand
CSB
$ 55,000.00/4.98%
PGT Construction

CSB/FBE
$ 55,000.00/4.98%

RAR Contracting

CSB/MBE
$ 55,000.00/4.98%

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Rush, Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 538-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 103-22-074 located at 2188 East
37th Street in Ward 5; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Cathy Michelle Houston
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel for yard
expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 5 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Cathy Michelle
Houston for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 10322-074 located at 2188 East 37th
Street, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Rush, Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors

October 24, 2012
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 539-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 124-26-018 located at 7032 Colfax
Road in Ward 5; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Samuel Maul and Cherie
Maul have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 5 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Samuel Maul and
Cherie Maul for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 12426-018 located at 7032 Colfax Road,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Rush, Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 540-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 125-19-050 located at 7310 Port
Avenue in Ward 5; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commis-

The City Record
sioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Mary Murphy has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 5 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Mary Murphy for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 125-19-050 located at
7310 Port Avenue, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Rush, Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 541-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 131-28-055 located at 3606 Beyerle Road in Ward 12; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Thomas W. Piskach has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and

1685

13
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
Cleveland,
with
Thomas
W.
of
Piskach for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 13128-055 located at 3606 Beyerle Road,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcel
shall be $1.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcel for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Rush, Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
Resolution No. 542-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
Nos. 007-20-063 and 007-20-064 located
on Walton Avenue in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Jorge L. Roman has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcels for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has approved the proposed
sale or has not disapproved or
requested a hold of the proposed
sale within 45 days of notification
of it;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcels is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested, to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Jorge L. Roman
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 007-20-063 and
007-20-064 located on Walton Avenue
and 3610 Walton Avenue, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the sale of the parcels

The City Record

14
shall be $2.00, which amount is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcels for
uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith,
Cox, Butler, Rush, Southerington,
Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Flask.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2012
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 12-159: 3136 West 63rd
Street (Ward 15)
West 63rd Street LLC, owner,
appeals to change from manufacturing / warehouse to automobile dismantling the use of a triangular
shaped
acreage
parcel
located
between West 63rd Street and Stock
Avenue in an A3 Unrestricted Industry District.
Subject to the limitations in Section 345.04(a)(3) open yard storage
of salvaged articles shall be located
no closer than 500 feet of a residence district; and in the provisions
of Section 358.03(a) no portion of a
fence located within 30 feet of the
intersection of 2 street right-of-way
lines shall exceed 2
feet in height
unless all portions of the fence
above 2
feet in height are at least
75% open and the same restrictions
shall apply to any portion of a fence
located along and parallel to a dri-

veway within 15 feet of its intersection with a public sidewalk or
public street, if no sidewalk is present.
Calendar No. 12-171: 3951 Rocky
River Drive (Ward 19)
Bethesda Lutheran Home, owner
appeals for a 525 square foot addition and to establish use as a group
home for 3 residents and a charitable institution, not for correctional
purposes, operated by 10 staff members and proposed to include assembly, activity and office areas for job
training and daytime activities for
clients in an existing dwelling
house located on a 62.66' x 157.64'
parcel in a B1 Two-Family District
within approximately 16 feet of a
Residence District; and in accordance with Sections 337.02(f)(3)(G),
requires
the
Board
of
Zoning
approval,
after
public
Appeals
notice and hearing, to determine if
adequate yard spaces and other
safeguards to preserve the character
of the neighborhood are provided
and if such uses are appropriately
located and designed and will meet
a community need without adversely affecting the neighborhood and
provided that the proposed use is
not located less than 30 feet from
any adjoining premises in a Residence District not used for a similar purpose.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 12-175: 4405 Woburn
Avenue (Ward 13)
Tomford Capital LLC and Joseph
Rezabek appeal under the authority
of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the
City
of
Cleveland
and
Section
329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances and disputes the decision rendered on September 19, 2012
by the City of Cleveland Parking
Violations
Bureau
Photo
Safety
Division and the violation information described on Civil Infraction
Ticket Number WC00144576, issued
August 9, 2012 for the property
located at 4405 Woburn Avenue and
failure
to
comply
with
Section
551.111(B) in the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 12-176: 3458 West
120th Street (Ward 17)
Christopher Willard appeals under
the authority of Section 76-6 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland and
Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances and disputes
the decision rendered by the City of
Cleveland
Parking
Violations
Bureau Photo Safety Division and
the violation information described
on Civil Infraction Ticket Number
WC00144618, issued August 14, 2012
for the property located at 3458
West 120th Street and failure to
comply with Section 551.111(B) in
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-142: 17149 St. Clair
Avenue (Ward 11)
With a Motion for Rehearing
granted,
Brian
Kuhar,
owner,
appeals for an expansion of junk
yard use to include wrecking and
dismantling of motor vehicles on an
irregular shaped lot in split zoning
between C2 Semi-Industry and B3
General Industry Districts; subject
to the limitations under Section
345.03 the proposed wrecking and
dismantling of motor vehicles is not

1686

October 24, 2012
permitted in a Semi-Industry District and an expansion of nonconforming use requires the Board of
Zoning Appeals approval, according
to the provisions under Section
359.01 in the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances. (Filed 8-2-12; Hearing
10-1-12; Motion granted 10-8-12.)
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2012
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, October
22, 2012, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
following
The
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 12-169: 2927 Bridge
Avenue
Heck’s Properties, LLC appealed
for an addition to an existing café
in a C1 Local Retail Business District; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 12-173: 17209 Lorain
Avenue
Kamm’s Plaza Shopping Center,
owner, and Chris Russo, tenant,
appealed to install portions of bamboo screening fence on an existing
fence in a C3 Local Retail Business
District.
Calendar No. 12-72: 2884 Scranton
Road
Ramon Torres appealed to expand
use of a motor vehicle service
garage to include minor repair only
with storage in the front parking
area of automobiles being repaired;
subject to conditions.
The following appeals scheduled
for postponement hearing on October 29, 2012 were WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 11-53: 1373 East 51st
Street
Calendar No. 11-54: 1368 East 52nd
Street
Ohio
Technical
College
Inc.
appealed to surface a vacant parcel
and construct a parking lot on two
parcels located in a B1 Two-Family
District.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 12-167: 598 East 185th
Street postponed to November 12,
2012.
Calendar No. 12-174: 2327 Holmden
Avenue postponed to November
19, 2012.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on October 15, 2012 were
adopted and approved on October 22,
2012.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 12-172: 16006 Talford
Avenue

The City Record

October 24, 2012
Anthony Cunningham appealed to
erect a 10' x 9' front porch to a single family dwelling in an A1 OneFamily District.
Calendar No. 11-190: 4106 Pearl Road
Mathile Saad appealed to establish
a motor vehicle repair garage on a
corner lot in a Local Retail Business
District; subject to conditions.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

and that upon termination of their
service as Fire Chief, Deputy Fire
Chief, or Assistant Fire Chief serving as the Executive Officer to the
Chief they shall, if appointed from
the division of fire, revert to the
civil service status held by them at
the time of appointment?

October 3, October 10, October 17,
October 24 and October 31, 2012

15
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25, 2012
AT 3:00 P.M. THE CARL B.
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
STOKES
1201
LAKESIDE
BUILDING,
AVENUE, 2ND PERMITS CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
October 17, 2012 and October 24, 2012
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012

Calendar No. 12-170: 4931 State Road
Ioanis
Vasilakis,
owner,
and
Luary Nawabit, tenant, appealed for
establishment of a motor vehicle service garage (sales and installation
of tires) in a B1 General Retail
Business District.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on August 20, 2012 was adopted and approved by the Board on
October 22, 2012.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 12-118: 4030 East 131st
Street
Two Great Lakes, Inc. appealed to
erect a motor vehicle service station
and retail store on a corner parcel
in a C1 Local Retail Business District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
On July 11, 2012, Cleveland City
Council passed Ordinance No. 911-12
authorizing the submission to the
electors of the City of Cleveland of
a proposal to amend the Charter of
the City of Cleveland by amending
existing Sections 118 and 126.  The
language that will appear on the
ballot for the November 6, 2012 election is as follows:
ISSUE 119
PROPOSED CHARTER
AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND
A majority affirmative vote is necessary for passage.
Shall Sections 118 and 126 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland be
amended to provide that the Fire
Chief, up to three Deputy Fire
Chiefs and one Assistant Fire Chief
serving as the Executive Officer to
the Chief are members of the unclassified service and shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of
the Mayor from the division of fire
or from persons outside the division
who shall have had training and
experience in fire fighting, provided
however,
that
the
Mayor
shall
appoint to the positions of Deputy
Fire Chiefs and Assistant Fire Chief
serving as the Executive Officer to
the Chief from among candidates
recommended by the Fire Chief with
the concurrence of the executive
head of the Fire Force if the executive head be other than the Mayor;

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012
File No. 133-12 — Fire Hydrants and
Fire Hydrant Parts, for the Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Section 129.25 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.

1687

File No. 132-12 — Downtown Recycle
Station
Fabrication
and
Installation, for the Division of
Waste Collection and Disposal,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance Nos. 73207, 51-09 and 560-11, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 11, 2007, March 2, 2009 and
June 6, 2011, respectively.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDAPRE-BID
MEETING
TORY
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2012
AT 10:00 A.M. WASTE COLLECAND
DISPOSAL,
5600
TION
AVENUE,
CLEVECARNEGIE
LAND, OHIO 44103.
October 17, 2012 and October 24, 2012
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2012
File No. 134-12 — Automotive and
Truck Parts and Service, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 AT
11:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
12302 KIRBY AVENUE, WPC
RED
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.
File No. 136-12 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Repair and
Maintain
Combination
Sewer
Catch Basin Cleaners, Including
Appurtenances, for the Division
of
Water
Pollution
Control,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 AT
10:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
12302 KIRBY AVENUE, WPC
RED
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.
October 24, 2012 and October 31, 2012
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2012
File No. 135-12 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Repair and
Maintain Plate Trucks, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012 AT

The City Record

16
10:30 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
12302 KIRBY AVENUE, WPC
RED
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.
October 24, 2012 and October 31, 2012
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2012
File No. 137-12 — Valves and Appurtenances Groups A, B, C and D
(Re-bid), for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2012
AT 10:30 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER, DISTRIBUTION AND
MAINTENANCE, 4600 HARVARD
AVENUE, PIPE REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM, NEWBURGH
HEIGHTS, OHIO 44105.
October 24, 2012 and October 31, 2012
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2012
File No. 138-12 — Upper Level
Expansion Joints Rehabilitation
and Terminal Utility Relocation,
Phase 1, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
274-05 passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, May 2,
2005.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
ONLY
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK OR A MONEY ORDER
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2012
AT 10:00 A.M. THE CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT, 19501 FIVE POINTS
ROAD, ENGINEERING BUILDING #206, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44135.
October 24, 2012 and October 31, 2012

Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at New Star Market,
Ltd., 3831 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number
63797080005; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 15, 2012.
Effective October 17, 2012.

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1487-12.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 3831
East 93rd Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at New Star Market, Ltd., 3831
East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44105,
Permanent
Number
63797080005; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and

Res. No. 1491-12.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 3750 Martin Luther King Jr.
Boulevard, 1st floor and basement
and repealing Resolution No. 943-12,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to Savmor 116 Deli,
Inc., DBA Martin Luther King Savmor, 3750 Martin Luther King Jr.
Boulevard, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent No.
7760164 by Resolution No. 943-12
adopted by the Council on July 11,
2012; and

1688

October 24, 2012
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to Savmor 116
Deli, Inc., DBA Martin Luther King
Savmor, 3750 Martin Luther King Jr.
Boulevard, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
No. 7760164, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
943-12, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 15, 2012.
Effective October 17, 2012.

Res. No. 1494-12.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit at
12029 Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and
basement and repealing Resolution
No. 1018-12, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to Lalitaambika, Inc.,
DBA The Outlet Store, 12029 Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent No.
4986593 by Resolution No. 1018-12
adopted by the Council on August 8,
2012; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit to Lalitaambika, Inc., DBA
The
Outlet
Store,
12029
Lorain
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent
No. 4986593, be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1018-12, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 15, 2012.
Effective October 17, 2012.

October 24, 2012
Res. No. 1495-12.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 783
East 185th Street rear and patio and
779 East 185th Street, 1st floor and
basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit from Rogmoore, Inc.,
783 East 185th Street rear and patio
and 779 East 185th Street, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 7483542 to Ohio
Restaurant Investment Corp., 783
East 185th Street rear and patio and
779 East 185th Street 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number 65204400030; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and
D3A Liquor Permit from Rogmoore,
Inc., 783 East 185th Street rear and
patio and 779 East 185th Street, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44119, Permanent Number 7483542 to
Ohio Restaurant Investment Corp.,
783 East 185th Street rear and patio
and 779 East 185th Street 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44119,
Permanent Number 65204400030; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a

The City Record

17

letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 15, 2012.
Effective October 17, 2012.

nances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1330-A-10,
passed December 6, 2010, relating to
fuel, fuel dispensing equipment, and
storage tank removal.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 131.65 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
No.
1330-A-10,
passed
Ordinance
December 6, 2010, is amended to
read as follows:

Ord. No. 901-12.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into an agreement with the
Cleveland Metropolitan School District to make twenty annual payments to the school district to compensate for tax revenues lost due to
the elimination of several businesses
on St. Clair Avenue to make way for
the construction of the Medical Mart.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland and
the County of Cuyahoga agreed on a
sale price of $20 million for the Cleveland Convention Center in order to
construct the Medical Mart; and
Whereas, included in the $20 million sale price was the agreement
that the City will remit an annual
payment of $175,000 for a period of
twenty years to the Cleveland Municipal School District for lost property
tax revenues when businesses on St.
Clair Avenue were eliminated to construct the Medical Mart; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the Cleveland Municipal School District to
make an annual payment of $175,000
for a period of twenty years for lost
property tax revenues when businesses on St. Clair Avenue were
eliminated to construct the Medical
Mart. The first annual payment
under the agreement shall be paid
from Fund No. 01-9998-6380, RQS
7001, RL 2012-76, and the remaining
nineteen annual payments shall be
paid from the fund or funds appropriated for this purpose in budget
years 2013 through 2031 and are subject to annual appropriation.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 15, 2012.
Effective October 17, 2012.

Section 131.65 Fuel, Fuel Dispensing Equipment, and Storage Tank
Removal
(a) The Director of Public Works,
or other appropriate director, is
authorized to enter into one (1) or
more standard purchase of requirement contracts duly let to the lowest
and best bidder after competitive bidding for fuel and fuel dispensing and
storage equipment, including but not
limited to: fuel, fuel dispensing equipment, fuel dispensing pumps and systems necessary for fuel operations,
fuel tankers, hydraulic lifts, oil and
grease dispensing equipment, stationary air compressors, and for emergency cleanup and replacement of
leaking underground and aboveground storage tanks and systems,
and labor, materials, and installation,
if necessary, to repair or maintain
existing equipment for the various
Department of the City. Any purchase
made under this section shall be made
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies and paid from the annual appropriations made for this purpose. The Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies shall combine the
requirements for each item into a single contract or contracts, as determined by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to be practicable,
in order to maximize the City’s buying power through aggregation of
citywide demand. Under Section
181.20, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies may require such
technical assistance from the Directors necessary to prepare the combined specifications.
(b) That under Section 108(b) of
the Charter, the purchases authorized
by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Works, or
other appropriate director, may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one (1) or more contracts with
the vendors selected through that
cooperative process.
Section 2. That existing Section
131.65 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1330-A-10, passed
December 6, 2010, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 15, 2012.
Effective October 17, 2012.

Ord. No. 1083-12.
By
Council
Members
Keane,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 131.65 of the Codified Ordi-

1689

18
Ord. No. 1237-12.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 447.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1653-93,
passed August 11, 1993, relating to
route map and operations schedule of
carriage businesses.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 447.06 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
No.
1653-93,
passed
Ordinance
August 11, 1993 is amended to read
as follows:
Section 447.06 Route Map and Operations Schedule
(a) A carriage business shall operate only upon routes and pursuant to
schedules which have been submitted
to and approved by the Commissioner
of Traffic Engineering and the Police
Traffic Commissioner.
(b) The route map and operations
schedule shall be filed with the application for a carriage business license
and shall contain the following:
(1) A map of the tour routes on
which the business’ carriages will
operate;
(2) The location of any curbside
areas to be designated as zones for
pickup and discharge of passengers;
and
(3) With respect to horse-drawn
carriages, the location of the site or
sites to be used for off-street storage,
stabling, and loading of carriages
and horses.
(c) The Commissioner of Traffic
Engineering and the Police Traffic
Commissioner may reject any route
map and operations schedule, the
implementation of which would
result in the unsafe use of public
rights of way or an unreasonable
impediment to the orderly flow of
traffic.
(d) The licensee may file with the
Commissioner additional routes from
time to time, provided that they have
first been submitted to and approved
by the Commissioner of Traffic Engineering and the Police Traffic Commissioner.
(e) Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prohibit a licensee from
operating on special routes for special events, including without limitation weddings, dinner-and-theater
packages, concerts and other performances, provided that such routes
have first been submitted to and
approved by the Commissioner of
Traffic Engineering and the Police
Traffic Commissioner.
(f) Upon receipt of an application,
the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses shall notify the Council
Member or Members in whose ward or
wards a carriage business intends to
operate for their written recommendation of approval.  No license shall
be issued until the expiration of thirty (30) days from the date of the
notice, unless the period of thirty (30)
days is expressly waived by the Council members in writing.
Section 2. That existing Section
447.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1653-93, passed August
11, 1993 is repealed.

The City Record
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 15, 2012.
Effective October 17, 2012.

Ord. No. 1244-12.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 609.09 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1631-05,
passed March 20, 2006, relating to
criminal child enticement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 609.09 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1631-05, passed March
20, 2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section
609.09
Criminal
Child
Enticement
(a) No person, with a sexual motivation as defined in RC 2971.01, or for
any other criminal purpose, by any
means and without privilege to do so,
shall knowingly solicit, coax, entice
or lure any child under fourteen (14)
years of age to accompany the person
in any manner, including entering
into any vehicle, as defined in RC
4501.01, or onto any vessel, as defined
in RC 1547.01, whether or not the
offender knows the age of the child, if
both of the following apply:
(1) The actor does not have the
express or implied permission of the
parent, guardian or other legal custodian of the child in undertaking the
activity;
(2) The actor is not a law enforcement officer, medic, firefighter or
other person who regularly provides
emergency services, and is not an
employee or agent of, or a volunteer
acting under the direction of any
Board of Education, or the actor is
any of such persons, but, at the time
the actor undertakes the activity, the
actor is not acting within the scope of
his or her lawful duties in that capacity.
(b) It is an affirmative defense to
charge under division (a) of this section that the actor undertook the
activity in response to a bona fide
emergency situation or that the actor
undertook the activity in a reasonable belief that it was necessary to
preserve the health, safety or welfare
of the child.
(c) Whoever violates this section is
guilty of criminal child enticement, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. This
section does not apply if the offender
previously has been convicted of this
section or RC 2909.05, 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.12, 2905.01, or 2907.05 when the
victim of that prior offense was under
seventeen (17) years of age at the
time of the offense.
(RC 2905.05)
Section 2. That existing Section
609.09 of the Codified Ordinances of

1690

October 24, 2012
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1631-05, passed March
20, 2006, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 15, 2012.
Effective October 17, 2012.

Ord. No. 1246-12.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 171.40 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 498-08,
passed April 21, 2008, relating to the
use of City credit cards.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 171.40 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 498-08, passed April
21, 2008, is amended to read as follows:
Section 171.40 Use of City Credit
Cards
(a) Authorization.
(1) A credit card held by the Clerk
of Council may be used to pay the following work-related expenses of the
Clerk, member of Council, and Council staff:
A. Transportation expenses while
traveling on City business;
B. Lodging expenses while traveling on City business;
C. Food expenses while traveling
on City business;
D. Food expenses as authorized by
ordinance of Council; and
E. Registration, tuition or enrollment expenses for meetings, seminars, conferences, or retreats in connection with the performance of official duties.
(2) A credit card held by the Law
Department Docket Clerk or any Law
Department attorney may be used to
pay
the
following
work-related
expenses:
A. Filing fees required by any
court, board or tribunal;
B. Any other cost assessed by a
court, board or tribunal other than
judgments or settlements.
(3) A credit card held by the
Finance Director, or his or her
designee, may be used to pay the following work-related expenses:
A. Transportation expenses while
traveling on City business;
B. Lodging expenses while traveling on City business;
C. Food expenses while traveling
on City business;
D. Food expenses as authorized by
ordinance of Council; and
E. Registration, tuition or enrollment expenses for meetings, seminars, conferences, or retreats and
other similar events in connection
with City business.
(4) A credit card held by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
or his or her designee, may be used to

October 24, 2012
pay
the
following
work-related
expenses: Business licenses, registrations,
subscriptions,
and
other
expenses in which a credit card is the
only method of payment acceptable to
the vendor.
Use of a City credit card for uses
other than those listed in division (a)
of this section shall be considered an
unauthorized use.
Use of a City credit card in a manner inconsistent with any restriction
or control placed on the card by the
Director of Finance shall be considered an unauthorized use.
(b) No late charges or finance
charges shall be allowed as an allowable expense on a City credit card
unless authorized by the Director of
Finance.
(c) Any debt incurred as a result of
the use of a credit card under this section shall be paid from moneys appropriated in the budget to specific
appropriation line items of the
appointing authority for work-related
expenses listed in division (a) of this
section.
(d) Use of any credit card under
division (a) of this section shall be
limited to the amount appropriated in
a specific appropriation line item for
the permitted use or uses designated
in division (a) and not otherwise
encumbered.
(e) If the card is issued in the name
of a specific officer or employee, that
officer or employee is liable in person
and upon any official bond of the officer or employee to reimburse the City
Treasury for the amount charged to
the City beyond the authorized
amount or the amount of unauthorized use. If the card is issued to the
office of an appointing authority, the
appointing authority is liable in person and upon any official bond of the
appointing authority for the amount
charged to the City beyond the authorized amount or for the amount of
unauthorized use.
(f) Any time a City credit card
authorized for use under this section
is used for more than the amount
appropriated and not otherwise unencumbered or is used for an unauthorized use, the City Treasury shall be
reimbursed for any amount spent
beyond the appropriated, otherwise
unencumbered amount, or for the
amount of unauthorized use, in the
following manner:
(1) If the card is issued in the name
of a specific officer or employee, that
officer or employee is liable in person
and upon any official bond of the officer or employee for reimbursing the
City Treasury for any amount
charged on the card beyond the appropriated, otherwise unencumbered
amount or for the amount of the unauthorized use.
(2) If the card is issued in the name
of the office of the appointing authority, the appointing authority is liable
in person and upon any official bond
of the appointing authority for reimbursement for any amount charged on
the card beyond the appropriated, otherwise unencumbered amount or for
the amount of the unauthorized use.
(g) Whenever any officer or
employee who is authorized to use a
City credit card or the office of any
other county appointing authority
suspects the loss, theft, or possibility
of unauthorized use of the card, the
officer or employee shall notify the
Director of Finance and either the
officer’s or employee’s appointing
authority immediately and in writing.

The City Record
(h) If the Director of Finance determines there has been a credit card
expenditure beyond the appropriated,
otherwise unencumbered or the
authorized amount or if the Director
of Finance determines that there has
been unauthorized use of a credit
card, and if the Director of Finance
determines that the City Treasury
should be reimbursed for credit card
expenditures beyond the appropriated, otherwise unencumbered or the
authorized amount, or for the amount
of the unauthorized use, the Director
of Finance shall give written notice
to the officer or employee or appointing authority of liability to the City
Treasury in accordance with this section. If, within thirty (30) days after
issuance of the written notice, the
City Treasury is not reimbursed for
the amount shown on the written
notice, the Director of Law shall
recover that amount from the officer
or employee or appointing authority
who is liable under this section by
civil action in any court of appropriate jurisdiction.
(i) Use of a City credit card for any
use other than those permitted under
division (a) of this section is a violation of RC 2913.21.
(j) The Director of Finance may
revoke credit card privileges and
reclaim the credit cards as the Director deems necessary.
Section 2. That existing Section
171.40 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 498-08, passed April 21,
2008, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 15, 2012.
Effective October 17, 2012.

Ord. No. 1405-12.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$16,000,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve facilities for the
discharge of governmental functions
and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Sixteen Million
Dollars ($16,000,000) (the “Series 2012
Bonds”) to finance the costs of certain
permanent improvements described
in Section 1; and
Whereas, the Series 2012 Bonds
shall be payable from and secured by
income tax revenues of the City
remaining after deposits required
under the General Bond Ordinance
(as defined in Section 2) are made to
the escrow agent for the City’s general obligation bonds; and 
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has certified to this Council that the estimated
life or usefulness of the improvements to be financed with the proceeds of the Series 2012 Bonds is at
least five (5) years and the maximum
maturity of the Series 2012 Bonds is
twenty-eight (28) years, as evidenced
by the certificate contained in File
No. 1405-12-A; and

1691

19
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds is
necessary to provide funds to pay the
costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section 1 that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Series 2012
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Sixteen Million Dollars ($16,000,000) for the purpose of providing funds to improve
facilities for the discharge of governmental functions or for services
otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and welfare, including
acquiring, constructing, furnishing
and equipping a new building to
house the 3rd District Police Station
and the Citywide Communications
Center, the provision of necessary
fixtures,
furnishings,
equipment,
information
technology
hardware
and software, utilities, site improvements and appurtenances, and to
pay any capitalized interest and all
expenses
incurred
in
connection
with the issuance of the securities,
including all financing costs within
the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of
the Revised Code and such other
costs of the foregoing permanent
improvements that may be financed
with the proceeds of securities as
permitted by Section 133.15(B) of
the Ohio Revised Code and as otherwise permitted by law.
Section 2. Authority, Security and
Source of Payment. The Series 2012
Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the
Ohio Constitution, Chapter 133 of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Charter of the
City, and this Ordinance for the purpose stated in Section  1. The Series
2012 Bonds shall be payable from and
secured by the income tax revenues of
the City on a basis subordinate to the
security given to the General Obligation Bonds of the City (“General
Obligation Bonds”) under Ordinance
No. 1749-80 passed by the Council on
October 15, 1980, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-83 passed by the Council on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed by the Council on June
10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further
be amended from time to time in
accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond Ordinance”). The debt service on the
Series 2012 Bonds shall be payable
from income tax collections remaining after depositing with the escrow
agent under the General Bond Ordinance the amount required for the
payment of debt service on the City’s
General Obligation Bonds issued and
outstanding, from time to time, under
the General Bond Ordinance. The
Series 2012 Bonds shall be issued and
secured under the terms of the Trust
Indenture, dated as of April 1, 2008,
between the City and U.S. Bank
National Association, as trustee (the
“Trustee”), as amended by Section 6.1
of the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2010,
between the City and the Trustee
(together, the “Indenture”). The
Indenture currently secures five
series of Subordinate Lien Income

20
Tax Bonds issued on May 1, 2008 (collectively, the “Series 2008 Bonds”) and
four series of Subordinate Lien
Income Tax Bonds issued on June 23,
2010 (collectively, the “Series 2010
Bonds”) and permits the issuance of
additional bonds, from time to time,
subject to certain restrictions. The
Series 2008 Bonds, the Series 2010
Bonds, the Series 2012 Bonds and any
additional bonds issued under the
Indenture are collectively referred to
in this Ordinance as the “Bonds.”
Section 3. Pledge and Covenant to
Maintain Income Tax. So long as
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City pledges the
municipal income taxes of the City
and grants a lien thereon, subordinate to the lien granted in the General Bond Ordinance as security for the
General Obligation Bonds of the City
issued and outstanding under the
General Bond Ordinance, to the full
extent required to meet debt charges
payable on the Bonds issued and outstanding, from time to time, under the
Indenture. The City covenants to
appropriate
annually
sufficient
amounts from the income taxes to pay
all debt charges on the General Obligation Bonds, the Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture, any Parity
Obligations and the Unrestricted
Income Tax Obligations (each as
defined in the Indenture). The City
further covenants that so long as any
Bonds are outstanding under the
Indenture, the City shall not repeal or
amend, or suffer the repeal of, any
ordinance for the levy or collection of
its income taxes in any manner or to
such extent that the City would not be
able to meet its obligations to the
holders of the Bonds.
Section 4. Terms of the Series 2012
Bonds. The Series 2012 Bonds shall be
issued in fully registered form. The
Series 2012 Bonds may be issued in
one or more series or subseries. The
Series 2012 Bonds may be delivered
only in book-entry form, and if so
delivered, shall be registered in the
name of the Depository (as defined in
the Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another Depository or its nominee) without further
action by the City pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and the Third
Supplement identified in Section 7.
The Series 2012 Bonds shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement
Bonds, Series 2012” and may contain
such further designation as provided
in the Certificate of Award identified
below. The Series 2012 Bonds shall be
issued in one lot as fully registered
Series 2012 Bonds in denominations of
$5,000 or any whole multiple thereof.
The Series 2012 Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance. The Series 2012 Bonds
shall be signed by the officials of the
City and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture.
The Series 2012 Bonds shall be
dated the date of their issuance and
delivery or such other date specified
in the certificate of award providing
for the final terms of the Series 2012
Bonds and the sale of the Series 2012
Bonds in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Series 2012 Bonds shall bear
interest from their date until the principal amount is paid at the rate or
rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the yield

The City Record
(determined in accordance with the
arbitrage provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) of
the Series 2012 Bonds shall not exceed
six per cent (6.00%) per year. Interest
on the Series 2012 Bonds shall be
payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1, or such other dates specified in the Certificate of Award (the
“Interest Payment Dates”).
The Series 2012 Bonds shall mature
in the years and principal amounts
set forth in the Certificate of Award,
provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, and (ii) the final maturity
date of the Series 2012 Bonds shall be
no later than December 1, 2040. The
Series 2012 Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as serial
Series 2012 Bonds or as term Series
2012 Bonds payable prior to stated
maturity pursuant to sinking fund
redemption (the “Term Bonds”). The
Director of Finance shall determine
in the Certificate of Award whether
any of the Series 2012 Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates (the
“Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on
which the principal amount of the
Term Bonds shall be payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
installments rather than at stated
maturity and the amount of principal
to be paid on each Mandatory
Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”). If any of the Series 2012
Bonds are issued as Term Series 2012
Bonds, the Term Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to the
redemption date, on the Mandatory
Redemption Dates. The aggregate of
the moneys to be deposited with the
Trustee for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds shall
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided in
the Indenture and the Third Supplement).
The Series 2012 Bonds may be subject to redemption prior to maturity
by and at the option of the City, in
whole or in part on any date, in whole
multiples of $5,000, on the redemption
dates and at the redemption prices
specified in the Certificate of Award,
plus, in each case, accrued interest to
the redemption date. Based on the
written advice of a financial advisor,
the Director of Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that
it is in the best interests of the City
(i) for some or all of the Series 2012
Bonds not to be callable prior to their
stated maturity, and (ii) for a premium to be payable on the redemption of
any Series 2012 Bonds calculated in a
manner to make the bondholder
whole for the loss of the investment or
calculated as a percentage in excess
of 100% of the principal amount
redeemed.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the City may
have the option to purchase any Bond
which is redeemable by optional
redemption at a purchase price not
less than the redemption price that
would be payable if that Bond were
called for optional redemption on the
date of the proposed purchase. That

1692

October 24, 2012
election shall be exercised as provided in the Third Supplement.
If and to the extent provided in the
Certificate of Award, the Series 2012
Bonds may be secured by a Debt Service Reserve Fund to be held by the
Trustee under the Indenture. The
principal amount of the Series 2012
Bonds may include provision for funding the Debt Service Reserve Fund
from the proceeds of the Bonds, subject to compliance with applicable
federal tax laws.
Section 5. Sale of Series 2012 Bonds.
The Series 2012 Bonds shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for
that Account, shall be sold to Stifel,
Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated
(the “Original Purchaser”). The Certificate of Award shall specify the
final terms of the Series 2012 Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 12 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the
Series 2012 Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Series 2012 Bonds
(which shall not exceed the amount
stated in Section 1), the purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal
installments are payable (at stated
maturity or pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), terms and conditions under
which any Series 2012 Bonds may be
redeemed prior to maturity at the
option of the City, the Interest Payment Dates and the date of the Series
2012 Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 3) and any other matters required in this Ordinance to be
set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the Charter, the Mayor,
Director of Finance, Director of Law,
Clerk of Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each
of them is, authorized to take such
actions as are necessary, appropriate
and in the best interest of the City to
establish the terms and requirements
for delivery of the Series 2012 Bonds
and to make such arrangements as
are necessary with the Original Purchaser in order to establish the date,
location, procedures, and conditions
for the delivery of the Series 2012
Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to
give all appropriate notices and certificates, to cause a true transcript of
proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds to
be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates,
financial statements and other documents and instruments and to take
such actions as are necessary or
appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take all steps necessary
to effect the due execution, authentication and delivery of the Series 2012
Bonds. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver on
behalf of the City a bond purchase
agreement between the City and the
Original Purchaser (the “Bond Purchase Agreement”), approved as to
form by the Director of Law, setting
forth the terms and conditions on
which the City agrees to sell the
Series 2012 Bonds and the Original
Purchaser agrees to buy the Series

October 24, 2012
2012 Bonds on terms consistent with
this Ordinance and the Indenture,
that are not substantially adverse to
the City and that are approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the
Bond Purchase Agreement or amendments to the Bond Purchase Agreement by the Director of Finance. It is
determined that the terms of the
Series 2012 Bonds, as provided in this
Ordinance and as may be provided in
or pursuant to the Certificate of
Award, the Indenture and the Third
Supplement, are in the best interest of
the City and in compliance with all
legal requirements.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2012 Bonds shall be applied as
follows:
(a) to the payment of any providers
of any Credit Support Instruments,
the fees and expenses required to be
paid by the City to obtain the Credit
Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Interest Payment Account in the Debt
Service Fund, the amount, if any,
received by the City upon delivery of
the Series 2012 Bonds as accrued
interest from their dated date to the
date of their delivery to the Original
Purchaser;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit in the
Debt Service Reserve Fund, any
amount identified in the Certificate of
Award as required to be deposited in
the Debt Service Reserve Fund; and
(d) to the Trustee for deposit in the
Project Fund, the balance of the proceeds (including any original issue
premium received from the sale of the
Series 2012 Bonds).
Section 7. Supplemental Indenture.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City a supplemental indenture (the
“Third Supplement”), supplementing
the Indenture to provide procedures
for the authentication, registration
and transfer of the Series 2012 Bonds,
redemption of Series 2012 Bonds, payments under any Credit Support
Instrument authorized by Section 11,
application of the proceeds of the
Series 2012 Bonds, defeasance of the
Series 2012 Bonds, and other terms
consistent with this Ordinance and
the
Certificate
of
Award
and
approved by the Director of Finance
as not substantially adverse to the
City. The Third Supplement shall be
approved as to form by the Director of
Law. The determination by the Director of Finance that the provisions of
the Third Supplement are not substantially adverse to the City shall be
conclusively evidenced by the Director’s signing of the Third Supplement.
As appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, the Director of Finance, the
Director of Law, the Clerk of Council
and other appropriate officers of the
City are, and each of them is, authorized to sign, acknowledge and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the
City, such documents, certifications
and instruments in addition to the
Indenture and Third Supplement as
may be necessary or appropriate to
issue and sell the Series 2012 Bonds
and to consummate the transactions
authorized by this Ordinance.
Section 8. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Series 2012 Bonds for the purpose set
forth in Section 1, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate princi-

The City Record
pal amount not to exceed Sixteen Million
Dollars
($16,000,000)
(the
“Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”). The Notes, if sold as fixed
rate obligations, shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding four percent
(4.00%) per year, and shall be
payable on the date or dates, as shall
be determined by the Director of
Finance of the City in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be dated their
date of issuance; shall mature on the
date set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time prior to
maturity without penalty, unless the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, that the Notes
not be redeemable prior to maturity or
that a premium be paid on their prior
redemption; shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bond
Anticipation Notes” or as otherwise
provided in the Note Certificate of
Award; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which
may be in a book entry only system).
The provisions of Sections 9.98 to 9.983
of the Revised Code shall apply to the
Notes and pursuant to that authority
and this Ordinance, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, that the
City’s best interests will be served by
causing all or a portion of the Notes to
be obligations bearing interest at
variable rates. If the Director of
Finance so determines, then the
Director of Finance shall specify in
the Certificate of Award the method
and procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the variable rate Notes shall be determined;
provided that the variable rate Notes
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess
of
twenty-five
percent
(25.00%) per year. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Notes,
and from time to time thereafter so
long as the variable rate Notes are
outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support Instruments (as defined in
Section 11) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance, based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders the
right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of
the variable rate Notes upon tender
for purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the Credit Support Instrument. The Trustee
shall be the authenticating agent,
registrar, transfer agent and paying
agent for the Notes. The Notes shall
be signed by the officials of the City
and in the manner set forth in the
Indenture. The Notes shall first be
offered for purchase to the Trustees
of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by them, shall be offered to
the Treasury Investment Account for
purchase and, if not purchased for

1693

21
that Account, shall be sold at not less
than par and accrued interest to one
or more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note Purchaser”) in the principal amount set
forth in a certificate of award to be
executed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
The proceeds of such sale shall be
paid into the proper fund or funds set
forth in the Note Certificate of Award
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 9. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure. If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, a disclosure document (each, an “Official
Statement”) is appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the
Notes or the Series 2012 Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or the
Series 2012 Bonds, as the case may be,
and any necessary supplements and
to authorize the use and distribution
of each Official Statement and any
supplements. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity each
Official Statement and any supplements approved by her. The Director
of Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City and in
her official capacity such certificates
in connection with the accuracy of
each Official Statement and any supplements as may, in her judgment, be
necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is also authorized to
determine and certify on behalf of the
City that such disclosure document is
“deemed final” by the City within the
meaning of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC
Rule.” The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services for
the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Series 2012 Bonds, the
City agrees, in accordance with, and
as the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Series
2012 Bonds under the SEC Rule, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner as
may be required for purposes of the
SEC Rule. In order to describe and
specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that
purpose, and thereby to implement
that agreement, including provisions
for enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to prepare, or
cause to be prepared, and to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf of
the City, a continuing disclosure
agreement or certificate, which shall
constitute the continuing disclosure
agreement made by the City for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Notes or the Series 2012
Bonds, as the case may be, in accordance with the SEC Rule. The performance of that agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds and
their annual appropriation to meet
costs the City would be required to
incur to perform it. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to

22
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 10. Federal Tax Considerations. (a) Tax-Exempt Bonds.    The
representations and covenants in this
subsection (a) apply only to Series
2012 Bonds or Notes sold as obligations to which Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of l986, as amended
(the “Code”) applies, the interest on
which is excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes
(“Tax-Exempt Bonds”).
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the TaxExempt Bonds in such manner and to
such extent as may be necessary so
that (i)  the Tax-Exempt Bonds will
not (A) constitute private activity
bonds or arbitrage bonds under Sections 141 or 148 of the Code or (B) be
treated other than as bonds the interest on which is excluded from gross
income under Section 103 of the Code,
and (ii) the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds will not be an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of the
Code.
The City further covenants that (i)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Tax-Exempt Bonds
to be and remain excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, (ii) it will not take or authorize to
be taken any actions that would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(iii) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (A)
apply the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds to the governmental purpose of
the borrowing, (B) restrict the yield
on investment property, (C) make
timely and adequate payments to the
federal government, (D) maintain
books and records and make calculations and reports and (E)  refrain
from certain uses of those proceeds,
and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
(b) Further Actions. The Director
of Finance or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Series 2012 Bonds and
any Notes is hereby authorized (i) to
make or effect any election, selection,
designation,
choice,
consent,
approval, or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Series 2012
Bonds and any Notes as the City is
permitted to or required to make or
give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections available
under Section 148 of the Code, for the
purpose of assuring, enhancing or
protecting favorable tax treatment or
tax status of the Series 2012 Bonds
and any Notes or interest thereon, or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing rebate amounts or payments or penalties or making payments of special amounts in lieu of
making computations to determine,
or paying, excess earnings as rebate,
or obviating those amounts or payments, which action shall be in writing and signed by the officer, (ii) to
take any and all other actions, make
or obtain calculations, make payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on

The City Record
behalf of the City, as may be appropriate to assure the intended tax status of the Series 2012 Bonds and any
Notes and (iii) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,
for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Series 2012 Bonds
and any Notes, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Series 2012 Bonds
and any Notes, the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they
are based, and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment
of the interest on the Series 2012
Bonds and any Notes and the tax status of the Series 2012 Bonds and any
Notes.
Section 11. Credit Facilities and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written
advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain an
insurance policy, letter of credit,
standby bond purchase agreement or
other credit enhancement instrument
as further security for the payment
when due of the principal of and interest on all or any portion of the Series
2012 Bonds or any Notes (a “Credit
Support Instrument”). The Director of
Finance may request a rating on the
Series 2012 Bonds or Notes from one or
more nationally recognized rating
organizations, and do any and all
things and take any and all actions
required to secure a Credit Support
Instrument and/or a rating or ratings
on the Series 2012 Bonds or Notes. The
Director of Finance may enter into
one or more agreements for Credit
Instruments
containing
Support
terms not materially inconsistent
with this Ordinance or the Indenture.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure Credit Support
Instruments or obtain those ratings is
authorized and approved, and the
Director of Finance is authorized to
provide for the payment of any such
amounts from the proceeds of the
Series 2012 Bonds or Notes to the
extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available
that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12. Financial Advisor. The
Director of Finance may obtain the
services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any of
the determinations required by this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 13. Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of this Council
and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken, and any of its
committees and that all deliberations
of this Council that resulted in these
formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section 121.22 of
the Revised Code.
Section 14. Findings and Recitals of
Validity. It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, con-

1694

October 24, 2012
ditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing
of the Series 2012 Bonds and the Notes
in order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, will
have been exceeded in the issuance of
the Series 2012 Bonds or the Notes. It
is further found and determined, and
is represented and recited, that the
provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on three
separate days or dispensing with
such readings by a two-thirds vote of
all members of the Council), 36, 37, 48
and all other applicable provisions of
the City’s Charter and the rules of this
Council have been fully complied
with and this Ordinance was passed
in conformity therewith.
Section 15. Delivery to County Fiscal Officer. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy of
this Ordinance and of the Certificate
of Award for the Series 2012 Bonds
and any Note Certificate of Award to
the County Fiscal Officer of Cuyahoga County and to secure a receipt
therefore.
Section 16. Severability. Each section and each part of each section of
this Ordinance is declared to be an
independent section or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is
declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any such section or
part of a section or any provision
thereof, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of such provisions to any other person
or circumstance, other than those as
to which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 17. Legislative Intent. All
terms, conditions, pledges, covenants
or agreements on the part of the City
provided for in this Ordinance are
made by the voluntary act of the City
under its lawful authority, including
its authority under its Charter and
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
Ohio. Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance shall not apply to the
Series 2012 Bonds or the Notes authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding Series 2012 Bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration was
duly received by the City prior to the
passage of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the

October 24, 2012
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Passed October 15, 2012.
Effective October 17, 2012.

Ord. No. 1407-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Cleveland and Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Clean Ohio Conservation Program, or
its successor or designee, for environmental assessment and remediation
and for property acquisition needed
for Stage 3 of the Towpath Trail Project; authorizing the Director to enter
into and exercise Option to Purchase
Agreements with Concrete, Inc. and
Jerome T. Osborne for properties
needed for the Project and to grant or
accept gifts of property between the
parties; authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to purchase the properties; and authorizing
payment of grant funds to Cuyahoga
County for the assessment and remediation of the properties.
Whereas, the Towpath Trail is
largely complete from Zoar, Ohio, to
the Cleveland City limits and Stage 3
of the Project brings it closer to completion; and
Whereas, Stage 3 of the Towpath
Trail Project is part of a joint effort
by the City of Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, Cleveland Metroparks, and
the Ohio Canal Corridor to extend the
Towpath Trail from its current terminus at Harvard Avenue in Cleveland,
and ending at the proposed Canal
Basin Park near Settler’s Landing;
and
Whereas, an integral part of the
Stage 3 Towpath Trail Project
includes the acquisition and environmental remediation of certain strategic properties which are located at
the intersection of Literary Road and
West 3rd Street and also on Clark
Avenue between West 11th Street and
Quigley Road (the “Stage 3 Strategic
Properties”) and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Works shall enter into Option to Purchase Agreements with Concrete, Inc.
and Jerome T. Osborne as owners of
the Stage 3 Strategic Properties; and
Whereas, if the Clean Ohio Conservation Program grant is awarded
thereby allowing the Option Agreements to be exercised, the Director of
Public Works shall be authorized to
transfer grant funds to Cuyahoga
County for assessment and remediation of the Stage 3 Strategic Properties; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant not to exceed
$1,000,000 from the Clean Ohio Conservation Program, or its successor
or designee, for the Towpath Trail

The City Record
Stage 3 Project; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the file
mentioned below.
Section 2. That the application
materials for the grant, presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in File No. 1407-12-A,
is made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds, in an
amount up to $350,000, from Fund No.
20 SF 522, is approved in all respects.
In the event the Clean Ohio grant is
not awarded, the above $350,000 from
Fund No. 20 SF 522 can be used to
acquire the Stage 3 Strategic properties as well.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into Option to Purchase
Agreements with Jerome T. Osborne
for real estate located on Clark
Avenue between West 11th Street and
Quigley Road, and with Concrete, Inc.
for real estate located near the intersection of Literary Road and West 3rd
Street, more fully described as follows:
(Legal Description for Concrete,
Inc. real estate located near the intersection of Literary Road and West 3rd
Street)
Concrete, Inc.
0.4241 Acre
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of S.S.
Stone’s Survey of The College Tract
of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 87. Also being part of the
land conveyed to Concrete, Inc. as
recorded in Volume 91-1574, Page 22 of
the Cuyahoga County Records, being
more definitely described as follows;
Commencing at a drill hole in a
stone found in a monument box at the
at the intersection of the centerline of
W. 3rd Street (70 feet wide) and the
centerline of Mahoning Avenue S.W.
(50 feet wide);
Thence, along the centerline of W.
3rd Street, South 38° 21' 14" East,
304.12 feet to the northerly line of said
land conveyed to Concrete, Inc.;
Thence, along Concrete, Inc.’s
northerly line, North 86° 04' 21" West,
47.31 feet to an iron pin set in the
westerly right of way of W. 3rd Street
and the True Point of Beginning for
the parcel herein described;
Thence, along said westerly right
of way, South 38° 21' 14" East, 135.16
feet to an iron pin set in the southerly
line of said land conveyed to Concrete, Inc.;
Thence, leaving said westerly right
of way, along Concrete Inc.’s southerly line, North 86° 04' 21" West, 233.55
feet to an iron pin set in the easterly
right of way of Literary Road (60 feet
wide);
Thence, along said easterly right of
way, North 07° 45' 42" East, 100.22
feet to an iron pin set in the northerly
line of said land conveyed to Concrete, Inc.;
Thence, leaving said easterly right
of way, along Concrete, Inc.’s northerly line, South 86° 04' 21" East, 135.92
feet to the point of beginning.

1695

23
Containing within said bounds
0.4241 acres of land as surveyed by KS
Associates, Inc. under the supervision
of Trevor A. Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No. 7730 in September 2012.
The basis of bearings for this survey is Ohio State Plane, North Zone
NAD83(2011) Grid North.
All iron pins set are 5/8" x 30"
capped rebar inscribed “KS ASSOCS
INC PROP MARKER”.
(Legal Descriptions for Jerome T.
Osborne real estate located north of
Clark Avenue between West 11th
Street and Quigley Road)
AUDITOR PERMANENT
PARCEL NUMBER 008-30-011
Parcel No. I
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
86, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the
northerly line of Clark Ave. S.W. 63
feet wide, with a line parallel to and
distant 80 feet northwesterly by rectangular measurement from the
northwesterly line of the Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad Company’s right-ofway.
Course 1:
Thence N 33° 58' 10" E along said
line which is parallel to and distant 80
feet northwesterly by rectangular
measurement from the northwesterly
line of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
Company’s right-of-way, 295.88 feet to
a point.
Course 2:
Thence N 88° 21' 50" W, being parallel with the northerly line of Clark
Ave. S.W. as aforesaid and 250.00 feet
northerly by rectangular measurement therefrom, 1472.00 feet to a
point.
Course 3:
Thence S 1° 38' 10" W 250.00 feet to
a point in the northerly line of Clark
Ave. S.W. as aforesaid.
Course 4:
Thence S 88° 21' 50" E, along said
northerly line of Clark Ave. S.W.
1313.75 feet to the place of beginning
containing
approximately
seven
acres of land, be the same more or
less, but subject to and excluding and
reserving from the above described
premises, that part thereof, conveyed
to the City of Cleveland, by deed
dated March 8, 1915, and recorded in
Volume 1619, Page 67 and Volume 877204, Page 57 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records.
Parcel No. II
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
86, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the Northeasterly corner of a parcel of land conveyed by
The Cuyahoga Valley Realty Company to the Highway Construction Company of Ohio, Inc., by Deed dated January 27, 1944, recorded in Volume
5657, Page 522 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records, said point being also
the point of intersection of the
Northerly line of the land so conveyed
with the Westerly line of a parcel of
land conveyed by The Cuyahoga Valley Realty Company to the City of

The City Record

24
Cleveland by Deed dated September
30, 1942, recorded in Volume 5472,
Page 98 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records, said last mentioned line
being also a line running parallel to
and 80 feet distant by rectangular
measurement from the Northwest line
of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company right of way, such point of
intersection being 295.88 feet distant
from the point of intersection of the
Westerly line of the parcel so conveyed to the City of Cleveland, with
the Northerly line of Clark Avenue
S.W, as the principal place of beginning.
Course 1:
Thence North 88° 21' 50" West
along the Northerly line of the parcel
of land so conveyed by The Cuyahoga
Valley Realty Company to The Highway Construction Company of Ohio,
Inc., by said Deed dated January 27,
1944, a distance of 1472 feet to a point
which is the Northwesterly corner of
the land so conveyed.
Course 2:
Thence North 1° 38' 10" East along
the projection Northerly of the Westerly line of the parcel of land so conveyed as aforesaid, a distance of 60
feet to a point.
Course 3:
Thence South 88° 21' 50" East along
a line parallel to and 60 feet distant
by rectangular measurement from the
Northerly line of a parcel of land so
conveyed by said Deed dated January
27, 1944, a distance of 1509.98 feet,
more or less, to a point of intersection
with the Westerly line of the parcel of
land conveyed as aforesaid by The
Cuyahoga Valley Realty Company to
the City of Cleveland.
Course 4:
Thence South 33° 58' 10" West
along a line parallel to and 80 feet distant by rectangular measurement
from the Northwest line of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company’s
right of way, said line being also the
westerly line of said parcel of land so
conveyed to the City of Cleveland by
said Deed dated September 30, 1942, a
distance of 71.01 feet, more or less, to
the point or place of beginning, containing 2.054 acres of land; but subject
to and excluding and reserving from
the above described premises, that
part thereof, conveyed to the City of
Cleveland, by deed dated March 8,
1915, and recorded in Volume 1619,
Page 67 and Volume 87-7204, Page 57
of Cuyahoga County Deed Records.
AUDITOR PERMANENT
PARCEL NO. 008-09-089
Parcel No. III
All that certain parcel of Real
estate situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, State of
Ohio, to wit:
Known as being all of Sublots #15
and #16 and parts of Sublots 17 & #18
and #19 in the Cuyahoga Valley Realty Company’s Subdivision #2 of part
of original Brooklyn Twp. Lots #71
and #86 as recorded in Volume 50,
Page 21 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records and bounded and described
as follows: - Beginning on the
Northerly line of Clark Avenue, S.W.
at its intersection with the Easterly

line of West 11th St.; thence easterly
along said northerly line of Clark
Avenue, S.W. 200 feet to the easterly
line of said Sublot #19; thence
northerly along said easterly line 100
feet to the northerly line thereof;
thence westerly along the northerly
line of the aforesaid Sublots #15, #16,
#17, #18 and #19, 200 feet to said easterly line of West 11th St.; thence
southerly along said easterly line 100
feet to the place of beginning, but subject to and excluding and reserving
from the above described premises,
that part thereof, conveyed to the City
of Cleveland, by deed dated March 8,
1915, and recorded in Volume 1619,
Page 67 and Volume 87-7204, Page 57
of Cuyahoga County Deed Records.
AUDITOR PERMANENT
PARCEL NO. 008-29-003
Parcel No. IV
All of that certain parcel of Real
Estate situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State
of Ohio and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lots
Nos. 71 and 86 and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the northerly line of
Clark Avenue, S.W. (63 feet wide) at
its intersection with the easterly line
of West 11th Street (45 feet wide);
thence S. 88 degrees 21 minutes 50 seconds E. along said northerly line of
Clark Avenue, S.W. 200.00 feet to the
easterly line of Sublot No. 19 in the
Cuyahoga Valley Realty Company’s
Subdivision No. 2, of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 71 and
86, as recorded in Volume 50, Page 21
of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
which point is the principal place of
beginning, thence continuing along
said northerly line of Clark Avenue,
S.W. S. 88 degrees 21 minutes 50 seconds E. 369.99 feet to the westerly line
of land conveyed to the Highway Construction Company of Ohio, Inc., by
deed dated January 27, 1944 and
recorded in Volume 5657, Page 522 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
thence N. 1 degree 38 minutes 10 seconds E. along said westerly line and
also the westerly line of land conveyed to said Highway Construction
Company of Ohio, Inc. by deed dated
October 20, 1944 and recorded in Volume 5861, Page 269 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, 310.00 feet to the
northerly line of the last aforesaid
conveyance; thence N. 88 degrees 21
minutes 50 seconds W. parallel with
said northerly line of Clark Avenue,
497.77 feet to the easterly line of said
Cuyahoga Valley Realty Company’s
Subdivision No. 2; thence S. 6 degrees
31 minutes 50 seconds E. along the
easterly line of said Subdivision No. 2,
95.69 feet to the northerly line of land
conveyed to Mike and Marie Hlatky,
by deed dated October 14, 1919 and
recorded in Volume 2370, Page 26 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
thence N. 83 degrees 28 minutes 10 seconds E. along said northerly line, 5.00
feet to the easterly line of land so conveyed to Mike and Marie Hlatky;
thence S. 6 degrees 31 minutes 50 seconds E. along said easterly line 34.98
feet to the northerly line of land conveyed to Peter and J. Ryba, by deed
dated May 26, 1921 and recorded in
Volume 2476, Page 633 of Cuyahoga
County Deed Records; thence N. 83
degrees 28 minutes 10 seconds E.

1696

October 24, 2012
along said northerly line 10.00 feet to
the easterly line of land so conveyed
to Peter and J. Ryba; thence S. 6
degrees 31 minutes 50 seconds E.
along said easterly line and the easterly line of land conveyed to Antoni
and A. Kaczar by deed dated August
7, 1924 and recorded in Volume 3116,
page 195 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records, 81.49 feet to the northerly
line of Sublot No. 17, in the aforesaid
Cuyahoga Valley Realty Company’s
Subdivision No. 2; thence S. 88 degrees
21 minutes 50 seconds E. along said
northerly line and the northerly line
of Sublots Nos. 18 and 19 in said Subdivision, 83.82 feet to the easterly line
of said Sublot No 19; thence S. 2
degrees 18 minutes 40 seconds W.
along said easterly line, 100.00 feet to
the principal place of beginning; subject to and excluding and reserving
from the above described premises,
that part thereof, conveyed to the City
of Cleveland, by deed dated March 8,
1915, and recorded in Volume 1619,
Page 67 and Volume 87-7204, Page 57
of Cuyahoga County Deed Records.
AUDITOR PERMANENT
PARCEL NUMBER 008-09-090
Parcel No. V
All that certain parcel of Real
Estate situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, State of
Ohio, to wit:
Known as being part of Sublot No.
21 in the Cuyahoga Valley Realty
Company’s Subdivision No. 2 of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
71 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 50 of Maps, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County Records, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
West 11th Street at the Northwesterly
corner of Sublot No. 21; thence
Southerly 31 feet along the said Easterly line of West 11th Street to a point;
thence Easterly 76 feet parallel with
the Southerly line of Sublot No. 21 to a
point; thence Northerly 31 feet parallel with the said Easterly line of West
11th Street to a point in the Northerly
line of said Sublot No. 21; thence Westerly 76 feet along the Northerly line of
said Sublot No. 21 to the place of
beginning.
Prior Instrument Reference: Volume 12132 of Deeds, Page 131.
AUDITOR PERMANENT
PARCEL NUMBER 008-09-063
Parcel No. VI
All that certain parcel of Real
Estate situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, State of
Ohio, to wit:
Known as being part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 71 and all
of Sublot No. 20 in the Cuyahoga Valley Realty Company’s Subdivision No.
2 of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 71 and 86, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 50 of
Maps, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Easterly line of West 11th Street at the
Southwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 20; thence Northerly along said
Easterly line of West 11th Street 30
feet to the Northwesterly corner of
said Sublot No. 20; thence Easterly
along said Northerly line of said

October 24, 2012
Sublot No. 20 and said Northerly line
prolonged Easterly 115 feet to a point
in the Easterly line of land conveyed
by the Cuyahoga Valley Realty Company to Emilie Kelley by deed dated
April 4, 1916 and recorded in Volume
1791, Page 347 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Southerly along said
Easterly line of land so conveyed
46.52 feet to a point in the Northerly
line of Sublot No. 17 in said Subdivision; thence Westerly along the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 17
and the Southerly line of said Sublot
No. 20, 116.18 feet to the place of beginning.
Prior Instrument Reference: Volume 12132 of Deeds, Page 123.
AUDITOR PERMANENT
PARCEL NO. 008-09-062
Parcel No. VII
All that certain parcel of Real
Estate situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, State of
Ohio, to wit:
Known as being part of Sublot No.
21 in the Cuyahoga Valley Realty
Company’s Subdivision No. 2 of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
71, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 50 of Maps, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County Records, and other land
in said original Lot No. 71, and together bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
West 11th Street at the Southwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 21; thence
North 4 feet along said Easterly line
of West 11th Street to a point; thence
Easterly 76 feet parallel with the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 21 to
a point, thence Northerly 31 feet parallel with the said Easterly line of
West 11th Street to a point in the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 21;
thence Easterly 39 feet along the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 21
and its Easterly prolongation to a
point; thence Southerly 35 feet parallel with the said Easterly line of West
11th Street to a point in the Easterly
prolongation of the Southerly line of
said Sublot No. 21; thence Westerly
115 feet along the Easterly prolongation of the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 21 and along the Southerly
line of said Sublot No. 21 to the place
of beginning.
Prior Instrument Reference: Volume 12132 of Deeds, Page 127.
Section 4. That, the Director of Public Works is authorized to exercise
the Option to Purchase Agreement.
Section 5. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
and notwithstanding the receipt of
grant funding authorized in Section 1
of this ordinance, the Director of Public Works and Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies are authorized to
purchase the Stage 3 Strategic Properties.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to execute on
behalf of the City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire and
record the property and to employ and
pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental audits, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property.
Section 7. That the consideration to
be paid for this property shall not

The City Record
exceed fair market value as determined by the Board of Control which
shall not exceed $350,000.00.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State of Ohio, Cuyahoga County,
Cleveland Metroparks, Ohio Canal
Corridor, or other entities needed to
effectuate this ordinance.
Section 9. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to send payment to Cuyahoga County for the
City’s cost of the assessment and
remediation of the Stage 3 Strategic
Properties.
Section 10. That the contract or contracts, and Option to Purchase Agreements authorized by this ordinance
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 11. That the cost of the property acquisitions and payment to the
County shall be paid from the fund or
funds that are credited the proceeds
of the grant accepted under this ordinance and up to $350,000 from Fund
No. 20 SF 522.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 15, 2012.
Effective October 15, 2012.

Ord. No. 1453-12.
By Council Member Kelley (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of paper products, for the various divisions of City
government for a period of one year
with an option to renew for one additional year, exercisable by the Director of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
a one year period with an option to
renew for one additional year, exercisable by the Director of Finance,
of the necessary items of paper and
envelopes for the various divisions
of City government, including but
not limited to various paper, and
envelopes
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the various
divisions of City government. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases

1697

25
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of any purchase under the contract, each of
which purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies by a delivery
order issued against the contract or
contracts and certified by the Director of Finance. (RQN 1508, RL 2012-56)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 15, 2012.
Effective October 17, 2012.

Ord. No. 1488-12.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance to extend
the moratorium on the review and
issuance of zoning permits, certificates of occupancy, and other license
or permit applications for internet
sweepstakes operations in the City of
Cleveland.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 136710, passed October 18, 2010, this Council declared a moratorium on the
review and issuance of zoning permits, certificates of occupancy, and
other license or permit applications
for internet sweepstakes operations
in the City of Cleveland, until April
18, 2011; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 50811, passed April 11, 2011, this Council
extended the moratorium declared by
Ordinance No. 1367-10 until October 24,
2011; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 143111, passed October 24, 2011, this Council extended the moratorium declared
by Ordinance No. 1367-10 until April
24, 2012; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 53812, passed April 16, 2012, this Council
extended the moratorium declared by
Ordinance No. 1367-10 until October 24,
2012; and
Whereas, this Council has been
researching internet sweepstakes
operations in order to make a determination regarding their classification under the City’s zoning code, and
possible regulations associated with
their activities; and
Whereas, the Ohio General Assembly passed Am. Sub. H.B. No. 386,
effective June 11, 2012, that imposed a
moratorium on all new sweepstakes
operations while statewide legislation regulating such establishments
is being considered; and

The City Record

26
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health, safety, or welfare in
that an extension of the moratorium
on such internet sweepstakes operations, consistent with the State
imposed moratorium is needed while
statewide legislation is being considered, and to allow this Council time to
consider all relevant factors in order
to make a determination as to what
action is appropriate for the City;
now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the moratorium on
the review and issuance of zoning
permits, certificates of occupancy,
and other license or permit applications for internet sweepstakes operations in the City of Cleveland
declared under Ordinance No. 136710 passed October 18, 2010, as
amended by Ordinance No. 508-11,
passed April 11, 2011, Ordinance No.
1431-11, passed October 24, 2011, and
Ordinance No. 538-12, passed April
16, 2012, is hereby extended until
June 30, 2013, or until the effective
date of an ordinance or law regulating internet sweepstakes operations, whichever date occurs first.
Section 2. That, as used in this ordinance, “internet sweepstakes operations” shall have the same meaning as
in Ordinance No. 1367-10.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 15, 2012.
Effective October 17, 2012.

Ord. No. 1493-12.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Reed and Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance amending
the Title and Section 1. Of Ordinance
No. 577-12 passed April 23, 2012 as it

pertains to the EL Hasa Temple No. 28
Shrine Temple project for building
renovations and interior improvements through the use of Ward(s) 5, 2
and 6 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance Number 577-12
passed April 23, 2012 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Economic Development to enter into
an agreement with the El Hasa Temple No. 28 Shrine Temple owned by Mr.
William Strawbridge located at 10004
Union Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio or it’s
designee the Mt. Pleasant Community
Zone for building renovations and
interior improvements through the
use of Ward(s) 5, 2 and 6 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Economic Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement with the El Hasa Temple
No. 28 Shrine Temple owned by Mr.
William Strawbridge located at 10004
Union Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio or it’s
designee the Mt. Pleasant Community
Zone for the public purpose of exterior building renovations and interior
improvements for economic development and new job creation in the city
of Cleveland through the use of
Ward(s) 5, 2 and 6 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the Title and Section
1 of Ordinance Number 577-12 passed
April 23, 2012 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 15, 2012.
Effective October 17, 2012.

October 24, 2012
COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, October 22, 2012
11:00 a.m.
Public Service
CELLED

Committee:

CAN-

2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Sweeney, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Brady,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
Tuesday, October 23, 2012
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, Pruitt, Westbrook,
Zone. Authorized Absence: Cimperman. Unauthorized Absence: Miller.
Pro tempore: Polensek.
1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee: Present: Pruitt, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Westbrook. Unauthorized Absence:
Conwell, Dow, Miller.
Wednesday, October 24, 2012
10:00 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation ComPresent:
Keane,
Chair;
mittee:
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J.
Johnson,
K.
Johnson,
Kelley,
Mitchell.
1:00 p.m.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee: Present: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell,
Dow, Keane, Zone.
1:30 p.m.
City Planning Committee: Present:
Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook, Vice
Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow, Keane,
Zone.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Amend Sections 1 & 7 of Ord. No. 1407-12 — Stage 3 of The Towpath Trail Project (O 1541-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1681
Amend Title and Section 1 of Ord. No. 577-12 — El Hasa Temple No. 28 Shrine Temple Project —
Building Renovations and Interior Improvements — Economic Development (Ward (s)
05, 02, and 06 NCF) (O 1493-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
Public Works — CMSD for Tax Revenue lost from sale of Convention Center for Medical Mart
(O 901-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
Public Works — Grant — Clean Ohio Conservation Program — Stage 3 Of The Towpath
Trail Project — Option To Purchase Agreements — The Stage 3 Properties (O 1407-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Public Works — Property Adoption Agreement — The Putman Sculpture Collection —
Rockefeller Park (O 1531-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1676

1698

October 24, 2012

The City Record

27

Board of Control — Architecture and Site Development Division
Kovacic Recreation Center roof and locker room improvements — amend BOC Res. 469-12 —
Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 536-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Beyerle Road, 3606 (Ward 12) — PPN 131-28-055 — Thomas W. Piskach (BOC Res. 541-12) . . . . . . .
Colfax Road, 7032 (Ward 5) — PPN 124-26-018 — Samuel Maul and Cherie Maul (BOC Res. 539-12).
East 37th Street, 2188 (Ward 5) — PPN 103-22-074 — Cathy Michelle Houston (BOC Res. 538-12) . . .
Port Avenue, 7310 (Ward 5) — PPN 125-19-050 — Mary Murphy (BOC Res. 540-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walton Avenue (Ward 14) — PPN 007-20-063/064 — Jorge L. Roman (BOC Res. 542-12) . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1685
1685
1684
1685
1685

Board of Control — Finance Department
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in August 2012 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 532-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in September 2012 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 531-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683

Board of Control — Kovacic Recreation Center
Roof and locker room improvements — amend BOC Res. 469-12 — Division of Architecture and
Site Development, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 536-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Beyerle Road, 3606 (Ward 12) — PPN 131-28-055 — Thomas W. Piskach (BOC Res. 541-12) . . . . . . .
Colfax Road, 7032 (Ward 5) — PPN 124-26-018 — Samuel Maul and Cherie Maul (BOC Res. 539-12).
East 37th Street, 2188 (Ward 5) — PPN 103-22-074 — Cathy Michelle Houston (BOC Res. 538-12) . . .
Port Avenue, 7310 (Ward 5) — PPN 125-19-050 — Mary Murphy (BOC Res. 540-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walton Avenue (Ward 14) — PPN 007-20-063/064 — Jorge L. Roman (BOC Res. 542-12) . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1685
1685
1684
1685
1685

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Consulting services for customer service systems support, IT general support and billing
system support — modify Contract #PS2011*304 per BOC Res. 532-11 — Division of Water,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 533-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Kovacic Recreation Center roof and locker room improvements — amend BOC Res. 469-12 —
Division of Architecture and Site Development, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 536-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Catch basins and manholes, construction and repair of — per C.O. Sec. 129.291 to Terrace
Construction Co., Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 534-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
Consulting services for customer service systems support, IT general support and billing
system support — modify Contract #PS2011*304 per BOC Res. 532-11 — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 533-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
Ion Chromatograph — per C.O. Sec. 129.28 to Dionex Corporation — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 535-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Grinding of streets — per Ord. 792-12 to The Shelly Company — Division of Streets
(BOC Res. 537-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
Kovacic Recreation Center roof and locker room improvements — amend BOC Res. 469-12 —
Division of Architecture and Site Development (BOC Res. 536-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in August 2012 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 532-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in September 2012 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 531-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Catch basins and manholes, construction and repair of — per C.O. Sec. 129.291 to Terrace
Construction Co., Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 534-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
Grinding of streets — per Ord. 792-12 to The Shelly Company — Division of Streets, Dept.
of Public Works (BOC Res. 537-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

1699

The City Record

28

October 24, 2012

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Ion Chromatograph — per C.O. Sec. 129.28 to Dionex Corporation — Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 535-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Board of Control — Streets Division
Grinding of streets — per Ord. 792-12 to The Shelly Company — Dept. of Public Works
(BOC Res. 537-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Board of Control — Water Division
Consulting services for customer service systems support, IT general support and billing
system support — modify Contract #PS2011*304 per BOC Res. 532-11 — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 533-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
Ion Chromatograph — per C.O. Sec. 129.28 to Dionex Corporation — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 535-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Catch basins and manholes, construction and repair of — per C.O. Sec. 129.291 to Terrace
Construction Co., Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 534-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Bridge Avenue, 2927, (Ward 3) — Heck’s Properties, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 10/22/12
(Cal. 12-169) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 131st Street, 4030, (Ward 2) — Two Great Lakes, Inc., owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 10/22/12 (Cal. 12-118). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th Street, 598, (Ward 11) — JTWIL, LLC, owner — appeal postponed to 11/12/12 on
10/22/12 (Cal. 12-167) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 51st Street, 1393, (Ward 8) — Ohio Technical College, Inc., owner — appeal withdrawn
10/22/12 (Cal. 11-53) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 52nd Street, 1368, (Ward 8) — Ohio Technical College, Inc., owner — appeal withdrawn
10/22/12 (Cal. 11-54) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holmden Avenue, 2327, (Ward 14) — Iglesia Nueva Vida, owner and Pastor Jose Reyes —
appeal postponed to 11/19/12 on 10/22/12 (Cal. 12-174) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 17209, (Ward 19) — Kamm’s Plaza Shopping Center, owner and Chris Russo,
tenant — appeal heard on 10/22/12 (Cal. 12-173) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4106, (Ward 13) — Mathile Saad, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
10/22/12 (Cal. 11-190) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Road, 2884, (Ward 14) — Ramon Torres, owner — appeal heard on 10/22/12
(Cal. 12-72) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 17149, (Ward 11) — Brian Kuhar, owner — appeal to be reheard on 11/5/12
(Cal. 12-142) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Road, 4931, (Ward 13) — Ioannis Vasilakis, owner and Luary Nawabit, tenant — appeal
denied and adopted on 10/22/12 (Cal. 12-170) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Talford Avenue, 16006, (Ward 1) — Anthony Cunningham, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 10/22/12 (Cal. 12-172) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1686
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1687
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1686
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1686
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1686
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1686
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1686
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1687
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1686
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1686
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1687
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1686

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Rocky River Drive, 3951, (Ward 19) — Bethesda Lutheran Home, owner — appeal to be heard
on 11/5/12 (Cal. 12-171) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 120th Street, 3458, (Ward 17) — Christopher Willard — appeal to be heard on 11/5/12
(Cal. 12-176) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 63rd Street, 3136, (Ward 15) — West 63rd Street LLC, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/5/12 (Cal. 12-159) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woburn Avenue, 4405, (Ward 13) — Tomford Capital, LLC, and Joseph Rezabek — appeal to be
heard on 11/5/12 (Cal. 12-175) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1686
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1686
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1686
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1686

Bonds
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — Sixteen Million Dollars ($ 16,000,000) — Finance
Department (O 1405-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1691

Capital Projects
Brookpark Rd. and relocated Grayton Rd. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning
Commission (Ward 18) (R 1538-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1680
East 66th Pl. (Lexington Avenue N.E., northerly to its terminus) — intention to vacate
a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (R 1066-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
Mulberry Street N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(R 1539-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1681

1700

October 24, 2012

The City Record

29

Repeal Ord. No. 1550-11 — grant easement for Ingress / Egress onto East 105th St. — Ronald
McDonald House Of Cleveland, Inc. (Ward 07) (O 1535-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1677
West 20th St. and Moore Ct. — intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission
(Ward 03) (R 1068-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682

City of Cleveland Bids
Automotive and truck parts and service — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due November 9, 2012
(advertised 10/24/2012 and 10/31/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Combination sewer and catch basins cleaners repair and maintenance — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due
November 9, 2012 (advertised 10/24/2012 and 10/31/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Downtown Recycle Station fabrication and installation — Department of Public Works —
Division of Waste Collection and Disposal — per Ord. 732-07, 51-09, 560-11 — bid
due November 14, 2012 (advertised 10/17/2012 and 10/24/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire hydrants and parts — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per C.O.
Sec. 129.25 — bid due November 9, 2012 (advertised 10/17/2012 and 10/24/2012) . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, plate, repair and maintain — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water
Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due November 14, 2012
(advertised 10/24/2012 and 10/31/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Upper Level Joint Expansion rehabilitation and Terminal Utility Relocation, Phase
I — Department of Port Control — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport —
per Ord. 274-05 — bid due December 12, 2012 (advertised 10/24/2012 and 10/31/2012). . . . . . .
Valves and appurtenances, Groups A-D (Re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due November 16, 2012 (advertised 10/24/2012
and 10/31/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687

City Planning Commission
Amsterdam Rd., N.E. and Syracuse Ave., N.E. — intention to vacate a portion —
Capital Projects (Ward 11) (R 910-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brookpark Rd. and relocated Grayton Rd. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects
(Ward 18) (R 1538-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 66th Pl. (Lexington Avenue N.E., northerly to its terminus) — intention to vacate
a portion — Capital Projects (Ward 07) (R 1066-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mulberry Street N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects (Ward 03) (R 1539-12)
West 20th St. and Moore Ct. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects (Ward 03)
(R 1068-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1681
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
First Energy Service Co. — Application for Certificate — Clinic Hospital Substation Project
(F 1546-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675
First Energy Service Co. — Letter of Notification — Transmission Line, Loops —
Clinic Hospital Substation Project (F 1545-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675

Cleveland Metropolitan School District
Public Works — agreement — Tax Revenue lost from sale of Convention Center for Medical
Mart (O 901-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689

Codified Ordinances
Amend Section 347.17 — Check Cashing Businesses, Short-Term Loan Lenders, Small Loan
Lenders and Mortgage Loan Lenders (O 670-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 447.06 — Route Map and Operations Schedule of Carriage Businesses (O 1237-12) . . .
Amend Section 609.09 — Criminal Child Enticement (O 1244-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sections 135.42 and 405.06 — Contracts for Towing , Storage and Disposal of Impounded
Motor Vehicles — Towing Fees (O 1543-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fuel, Fuel Dispensing Equipment, and Storage Tank Removal — Amend Section 131.65 (O 1083-12) .
Public Works — Amend Sections 559.14 and 559.15 — Croatian and The Hebrew Cultural Gardens
(O 1533-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Use of City Credit Cards — Amend Section 171.40 (O 1246-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1682
. . . . . . . . . . 1690
. . . . . . . . . . 1690
. . . . . . . . . . 1680
. . . . . . . . . . 1689
. . . . . . . . . . 1677
. . . . . . . . . . 1690

Communications
First Energy Service Co. — Application for Certificate — Clinic Hospital Substation Project
(F 1546-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675
First Energy Service Co. — Letter of Notification — Transmission Line, Loops —
Clinic Hospital Substation Project (F 1545-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675

Community Development
Economic Development — Sell Property to Waterford One, LLC . (PPN 142-23-005 / 006)
(O 1259-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682

1701

The City Record

30

October 24, 2012

Condolences
Hill, Bernice (R 1551-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
O’Malley, Judge Kathleen (R 1549-12) .
Torrence, Deacon Henry L. (R 1550-12)
Westbrooks, Spurgeon (R 1552-12) . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1675
1675
1675
1675

...........
(R 1554-12).
...........
...........

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1675
1675
1675
1675

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

Congratulations
Crowder, Rev. Dr. Rowland H. (R 1555-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Murtis Taylor Human Services System — 64th Anniversary
Rutt, Sgt. David (Badge #9723) (R 1556-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Statler Arms Apartments (R 1553-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Contracts
Economic Development — Jay Avenue Development Corp. — Finance the renovation
and site improvements of Jay Ave., 2515 (VPI) (O 1536-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1678
Exercise option to renew Contract No. CT 7012 NF2010-024 with Executive Caterers at
Landerhaven, Inc. — Provide Food and Beverage Services (O 1532-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1676
Finance Department — Wireless Cards — Safety Computers (CRIS System) (O 1529-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675
Fuel, Fuel Dispensing Equipment, and Storage Tank Removal — Amend Section 131.65 (O 1083-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
Paper Products — various divisions (O 1453-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697
Port Control — Tyco Simplex-Grinnell — maintain , repair and expand the Integrated Fire
and Security System (O 1530-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1676

Easements
Repeal Ord. No. 1550-11 — For Ingress / Egress onto East 105th St. — Ronald McDonald House
of Cleveland, Inc. (Ward 07) (O 1535-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1677

Economic Development Department
Amend Title and Section 1 of Ord. No. 577-12 — El Hasa Temple No. 28 Shrine Temple Project —
Building Renovations and Interior Improvements — agreement (Ward (s) 05, 02, And
06 NCF) (O 1493-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply and accept a grant — U.S. EPA — Brownfield Revolving Loan Program for environmental
remediation costs for eligible projects (O 1540-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development — Sell property to Waterford One, LLC . (PPN 142-23-005 / 006)
(O 1259-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contract — Jay Avenue Development Corp. — Finance the renovation and site improvements
of Jay Ave., 2515 (VPI) (O 1536-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1679
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1678

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Economic Development — Apply and accept a grant — Brownfield Revolving Loan Program for
environmental remediation costs for eligible projects (O 1540-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1679

Fees
Amend Sections 135.42 and 405.06 — Contracts for Towing , Storage and Disposal of Impounded
Motor Vehicles — Towing Fees (O 1543-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1680

Finance Department
Amend Section 347.17 — Check Cashing Businesses, Short-Term Loan Lenders, Small Loan
Lenders and Mortgage Loan Lenders (O 670-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts — Wireless Cards — Safety Computers (CRIS System) (O 1529-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paper Products — contracts — various divisions (O 1453-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — Sixteen Million Dollars ($ 16,000,000) (O 1405-12) .
Salary and Wage Schedules — Section 56 — Amend Ord. No. 1689-11 — Human Resources
Department (O 1537-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Use of City Credit Cards — Amend Section 171.40 (O 1246-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1682
1675
1697
1691

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690

Grants
Amend Sections 1 & 7 of Ord No. 1407-12 — Stage 3 of The Towpath Trail Project (O 1541-12) . . .
Economic Development — U.S. EPA — Brownfield Revolving Loan Program for
Environmental Remediation Costs for Eligible Projects (O 1540-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2013 — Cuyahoga County Board of Health — Health
Department (O 1534-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Works — Clean Ohio Conservation Program — Stage 3 of The Towpath Trail Project —
Option to Purchase Agreements — The Stage 3 Properties (O 1407-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1702

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1681
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1679
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1677
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

October 24, 2012

The City Record

31

Health Department
Immunization Action Plan Program, 2013 — Grant — Cuyahoga County Board Of Health (O 1534-12). . . . . . . . . . 1677

Human Resources Department
Salary and Wage Schedules — Section 56 — Amend Ord. No. 1689-11 — Finance Department
(O 1537-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1679

Information Technology Services
Finance Department — contracts — Wireless Cards — Safety Computers (CRIS System) (O 1529-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675

Law Department
Amend Section 609.09 — Criminal Child Enticement (O 1244-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690

Licenses
Moratorium Extension for Internet Sweepstakes Operations in the City of Cleveland (O 1488-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697

Liquor Permits
East 140th St., 831 — stock application (Ward 10) (F 1547-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 1035 — transfer of location application (Ward 11) (F 1548-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 185th St., 783 (Rear & Patio) and East 185th St., 779 (1st. Fl. & Bsmt.) — objection
to transfer of ownership (Ward 11) (R 1495-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd St., 3831 — objection to issuance (Ward 02) (R 1487-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 10202 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1038-12 (Ward 17)
(R 1542-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 12029 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal
Res. 1018-12 (Ward 17) (R 1494-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Martin Luther King Jr., Blvd.,3750 (1st Fl & Bsmt.) — withdraw objection to transfer of
ownership — repeal Res. 943-12 (Ward 02) (R 1491-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1688
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1688
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1688

Loans
Economic Development — Apply and accept a grant — U.S. EPA — Brownfield Revolving Loan
Program for environmental remediation costs for eligible projects (O 1540-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1679
Economic Development — contract — Jay Avenue Development Corp. — Finance the renovation
and site improvements of Jay Ave., 2515 (VPI) (O 1536-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1678

Peddlers
Harris, Robert — Peddling (Ward 04) (O 1544-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682

Permits
Harris, Robert — Peddling (Ward 04) (O 1544-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
Moratorium Extension for Internet Sweepstakes Operations in the City of Cleveland (O 1488-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697

Port Control Department
Contracts — Tyco Simplex-Grinnell — Maintain, repair and expand the Integrated Fire and
Security System (O 1530-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1676
Fuel, Fuel Dispensing Equipment, and Storage Tank Removal — Amend Section 131.65 (O 1083-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689

Public Improvements
Amend Title and Section 1 of Ord. No. 577-12 — El Hasa Temple No. 28 Shrine Temple Project —
Building Renovations and Interior Improvements — agreement — Economic Development
(Ward (s) 05, 02, and 06 NCF) (O 1493-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698

Public Works
Agreement — CMSD for Tax Revenue lost from sale of Convention Center for
Medical Mart (O 901-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
Amend Sections 1 & 7 of Ord No. 1407-12 — Stage 3 of The Towpath Trail Project (O 1541-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1681
Amend Sections 559.14 and 559.15 — Croatian and The Hebrew Cultural Gardens (O 1533-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1677
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management Plan (R 1338-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
Exercise option to Renew Contract No. CT 7012 NF2010-024 with Executive Caterers at
Landerhaven, Inc. — Provide Food and Beverage Services (O 1532-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1676
Fuel, Fuel Dispensing Equipment, and Storage Tank Removal — Amend Section 131.65 (O 1083-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
Grant — Clean Ohio Conservation Program — Stage 3 of The Towpath Trail Project — Option
to purchase agreements — The Stage 3 Properties (O 1407-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695
Property Adoption Agreement — The Putman Sculpture Collection — Rockefeller Park (O 1531-12) . . . . . . . . . . 1676

1703

The City Record

32

October 24, 2012

Purchases and Supplies Division
Amend Sections 1 & 7 of Ord No. 1407-12 — Stage 3 of The Towpath Trail Project (O 1541-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1681
Community Development & Economic Development — Sell Property to Waterford One, LLC .
(PPN 142-23-005 / 006) (O 1259-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
Public Works — Grant — Clean Ohio Conservation Program — Stage 3 of The Towpath
Trail Project — Option To Purchase Agreements — The Stage 3 Properties (O 1407-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1695

Resolution of Support
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management Plan (R 1338-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Cuyahoga County Solid Waste Management Plan (R 1338-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682

Safety Department
Amend Section 609.09 — Criminal Child Enticement (O 1244-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
Amend Sections 135.42 and 405.06 — Contracts for Towing, Storage and Disposal of Impounded
Motor Vehicles — Towing Fees (O 1543-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1680
Repeal Ord. No. 1550-11 — Grant easement for Ingress / Egress onto East 105th St. — Ronald
McDonald House of Cleveland, Inc. (Ward 07) (O 1535-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1677

Salaries
Salary and Wage Schedules — Section 56 — Amend Ord. No. 1689-11 — Finance Department —
Human Resources Department (O 1537-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1679

Street Vacation
Amsterdam Rd., N.E. and Syracuse Ave., N.E. — intention to vacate a portion —
Capital Projects — City Planning Commission (Ward 11) (R 910-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brookpark Rd. and relocated Grayton Rd. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects —
City Planning Commission (Ward 18) (R 1538-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 66th Pl. (Lexington Avenue N.E., northerly to its terminus) — intention to vacate
a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning Commission (Ward 07) (R 1066-12) . . . . . . . . .
Mulberry Street N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning
Commission (Ward 03) (R 1539-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 20th St. and Moore Ct. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects —
City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (R 1068-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1681
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682

Towing
Amend Sections 135.42 and 405.06 — Contracts for Towing , Storage and Disposal of Impounded
Motor Vehicles — Fees (O 1543-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1680

Traffic Engineering & Parking Division
Amend Section 447.06 — Route Map and Operations Schedule of Carriage Businesses (O 1237-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690

Vehicles
Amend Sections 135.42 and 405.06 — Contracts for Towing , Storage and Disposal of Impounded
Motor Vehicles — Towing Fees (O 1543-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1680

Ward 01
Community Development & Economic Development — Sell property to Waterford One, LLC.
(PPN 142-23-005 / 006) (O 1259-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
Crowder, Rev. Dr. Rowland H. — Congratulations (R 1555-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675
Torrence, Deacon Henry L. — Condolence (R 1550-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675

Ward 02
Amend Title and Section 1 of Ord. No. 577-12 — El Hasa Temple No. 28 Shrine Temple Project —
Building Renovations and Interior Improvements — agreement — Economic Development
(Ward (s) 05, 02, and 06 NCF) (O 1493-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
East 93rd St., 3831 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1487-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1688
Martin Luther King Jr., Blvd.,3750 (1st Fl & Bsmt.) — withdraw objection to transfer of
ownership — repeal Res. 943-12 — liquor permit (R 1491-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1688

1704

October 24, 2012

The City Record

33

Ward 03
Amend Section 447.06 — Route Map and Operations Schedule of Carriage Businesses (O 1237-12) .
Economic Development — contract — Jay Avenue Development Corp. — Finance the renovation
and site improvements of Jay Ave., 2515 (VPI) (O 1536-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mulberry Street N.W. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning
Commission (R 1539-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Statler Arms Apartments — Congratulations (R 1553-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 20th St. and Moore Ct. — intention to vacate a portion — Capital Projects —
City Planning Commission (R 1068-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1678
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1681
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1675
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1682

Ward 04
Harris, Robert — Peddling (O 1544-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
Murtis Taylor Human Services System — 64th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 1554-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675

Ward 05
Amend Title and Section 1 of Ord. No. 577-12 — El Hasa Temple No. 28 Shrine Temple Project —
Building Renovations and Interior Improvements — agreement — Economic Development
(Ward (s) 05, 02, and 06 NCF) (O 1493-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698

Ward 06
Amend Title and Section 1 of Ord. No. 577-12 — El Hasa Temple No. 28 Shrine Temple Project —
Building Renovations and Interior Improvements — agreement — Economic Development
(Ward (s) 05, 02, and 06 NCF) (O 1493-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1698
Murtis Taylor Human Services System — 64th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 1554-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675

Ward 07
East 66th Pl. (Lexington Avenue N.E., northerly to its terminus) — intention to vacate
a portion — Capital Projects — City Planning Commission (R 1066-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
Repeal Ord. No. 1550-11 — Grant easement for Ingress / Egress onto East 105th St. — Ronald
McDonald House of Cleveland, Inc. (O 1535-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1677
Torrence, Deacon Henry L. — Condolence (R 1550-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675

Ward 08
Hill, Bernice — Condolence (R 1551-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675
Public Works — Property Adoption Agreement — The Putman Sculpture Collection —
Rockefeller Park (O 1531-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1676

Ward 10
East 140th St., 831 — stock application — liquor permit (F 1547-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675

Ward 11
Amsterdam Rd., N.E. and Syracuse Ave., N.E. — intention to vacate a portion —
Capital Projects — City Planning Commission (R 910-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
East 185th St., 1035 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 1548-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675
East 185th St., 783 (Rear & Patio) and East 185th St., 779 (1st. Fl. & Bsmt.) — objection
to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1495-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689

Ward 12
Amend Section 347.17 — Check Cashing Businesses, Short-Term Loan Lenders, Small Loan
Lenders and Mortgage Loan Lenders (O 670-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682

Ward 13
Amend Section 347.17 — Check Cashing Businesses, Short-Term Loan Lenders, Small Loan
Lenders and Mortgage Loan Lenders (O 670-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682

Ward 15
Amend Section 347.17 — Check Cashing Businesses, Short-Term Loan Lenders, Small Loan
Lenders and Mortgage Loan Lenders (O 670-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682

Ward 16
Westbrooks, Spurgeon — Condolence (R 1552-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675

1705

The City Record

34

October 24, 2012

Ward 17
Crowder, Rev. Dr. Rowland H. — Congratulations (R 1555-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 10202 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1038-12 — liquor permit
(R 1542-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 12029 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal
Res. 1018-12 — liquor permit (R 1494-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Westbrooks, Spurgeon — Condolence (R 1552-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1682
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1688
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675

Ward 18
Brookpark Rd. and relocated Grayton Rd. — intention to vacate a portion —
City Planning Commission (R 1538-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
O’Malley, Judge Kathleen — Condolence (R 1549-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Westbrooks, Spurgeon — Condolence (R 1552-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Capital Projects —
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1680
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1675

Zoning Code
Moratorium Extension for Internet Sweepstakes Operations in The City of Cleveland (O 1488-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . 1697

1706

