The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

July the Eleventh, Two Thousand and Twelve

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
3
The Calendar
6
Board of Control
6
Civil Service
8
Board of Zoning Appeals
8
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
8
Public Notice
8
Public Hearings
8
City of Cleveland Bids
8
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
10
Committee Meetings
10
Index
10

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ..................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek.............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli.................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley.................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ...........................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone ....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ..................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady .........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Interim Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100

DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Interim Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Director, Mural Building, 75 Erieview
Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry, President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President
Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Interim Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry; Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Interim Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Chairman; Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney;
Councilman Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Interim Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan – Courtroom 13A
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JULY 11, 2012

Vol. 99

No. 5144

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JULY 9, 2012
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Dow,
Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell,
K.
Johnson,
Kelley,
Mitchell,
Sweeney, Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Zone,
Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, Mitchell.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
NO MEETING
______________
The following legislation will be
introduced at the meeting of Council
on Wednesday, July 11, 2012.

MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Bran catelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

Ord. No. 952-12.
By Council Member Kelley.
An ordinance to amend Sections 1
and 2 of Ordinance No. 550-12, passed
April 30, 2012, regarding the amendment and extension of the franchise
with Cleveland Thermal, LLC for the
transmission and supply of steam and
water for heating, cooling and power
purposes.
Whereas, the Charter of the City of
Cleveland authorizes this Council by
ordinance to grant a non-exclusive
franchise to any person, firm or corporation to construct, install, maintain and operate a utility in, under,
over, along, across and upon any of
the streets and public grounds of the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, on April 30, 2012, this
Council passed Ordinance No. 550-12
which authorized the amendment and
extension of the franchise to Cleveland Thermal, LLC for the transmission and supply of steam and water
for heating, cooling and power purposes; and
Whereas, it was the intention of
this Council and Cleveland Thermal,
LLC, to extend the franchise for the
maximum period of 25 years allowed
by law, but the final date of the fran-

1059

chise permitted by law was not
known until final passage and
approval of Ordinance No. 550-12; and
Whereas, it is necessary and in the
best interests of the City to amend
Ordinance No. 550-12 by correcting the
date through which the franchise
was granted; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 550-12, passed April 30,
2012, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That under Chapter 35 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland
and Section 1 of the franchise granted
by Ordinance No. 1519-04, passed October 25, 2004 (the “Franchise Ordinance”), this Council approves the
extension of the franchise agreement
to June 1, 2037, and the amendments
thereto regarding certain administrative matters as set forth therein.
Section 2. That existing Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 550-12, passed April 30,
2012, is repealed.
Section 3. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 550-12, passed April 30, 2012,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the franchise agreement granted to Cleveland Thermal
Holdings, LLC, as successor to CT
Acquisitions I Inc., by the Franchise
Ordinance described in Section 1 is
amended, and the entirety of the franchise agreement as contained in the
Franchise Ordinance as amended by
this ordinance is as follows:
Section 1. Grant of Franchise.
Under the Charter of the City of
Cleveland (“City”), and subject to the
terms and conditions set forth in this
franchise, Cleveland Thermal, LLC
(“Grantee”), is granted a non-exclusive franchise, until June 1, 2037,
unless sooner terminated as provide
in this franchise, to construct, install,
maintain and operate a system for the
transmission and distribution of
steam and water for heating, cooling
and power purposes (the “Steam System”) in the area of the City identified in the map contained in File No.
1519-04-A and incorporated by reference and as expanded or extended
within the boundaries of the City (the
“Service Area”) in, under, over, along,
across and upon the streets and public grounds (including, but not limited to, the streets, lanes, alleys,
avenues, easements and other public
thoroughfares and public rights of
way of the City in the Service Area)
in that Service Area, with the full and
necessary privileges for the use of
the streets and public grounds in the
Service Area for the purpose of digging a trench or trenches, and constructing, installing, maintaining
and operating pipes and conduits for
steam and water lines, together with
the right to maintain such pipes and
conduits, for the purpose of transmitting steam and water for heating,

The City Record

4
cooling and power purposes (“Steam
Service”), and to construct, install
and maintain all necessary insulators, valves, safety appliances, connections, manholes and other appurtenances necessary or appropriate to
the operation of the Steam System.
The Steam System of Grantee extends
from and includes the existing and
future steam generation and heating
or cooling water plants of Grantee
and the existing and future transmission and distribution system extending to the property line of each Customer (as such term is defined in Section 5A hereof), except where otherwise defined by agreement between
Grantee and a particular Customer;
provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed to require
Grantee to maintain existing steam
generation and heating or cooling
water plants so long as Grantee can
provide sufficient capacity, through
leases, power purchase agreements or
other means, to meet Customers’ reasonably anticipated requirements.
The grant of this franchise does not
establish priority or lack of priority
for use of the streets and public
grounds to Grantee over other present
or future permit holders or franchises, or over the City’s own use. Any
extension or expansion of the Steam
System shall be subject to all of the
obligations and reserved rights in
favor of the City set forth in this franchise, and shall be subject to all of the
The
conditions of this franchise.
products and services to be provided
or performed by the Grantee hereunder may be provided or performed by
the Grantee, acting itself, or through
an affiliate of Grantee, and the term
“Grantee” includes the Grantee and
any affiliate as the context permits.
As used herein, an “affiliate” of
Grantee means Cleveland Thermal
Generation, LLC, Cleveland Thermal
Steam Distribution, LLC, Cleveland
Thermal Chilled Water Distribution,
LLC or any other person or entity
directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control
with another person or entity.
Section 1A. Payments.
Grantee shall, by January 30 of
each calendar year, make the following annual payments, which shall be
deposited in the City’s general fund
and expended through legislation
passed by City Council for the purpose of paying the cost of the City’s
connection costs to the Steam System,
or if not needed for such purpose in
any year, as otherwise directed by
Council:
2011-2015
2016-2037

$125,000 per year
$150,000 per year

If requested by the Director of Public Utilities, in lieu of payment of
annual payments in any year,
Grantee shall perform all labor and
incur all costs necessary to connect
any City facilities to the Steam System, up to the amount of the annual
fee in any one calendar year.
Grantee shall discount the City of
Cleveland’s steam and chilled water
bill monthly according to the following schedule, with a maximum discount to the City by Grantee of $75,00
per year:
2011-2015
2016-2037

3% credit
4% credit

Section 2. Work on the Streets and
Public Grounds.
The Grantee, in the construction,
installation, maintenance or operation of the Steam System, shall not
endanger or unnecessarily interfere
with the lives of persons, shall not
unnecessarily interfere with any
installations of the City or any public
utility or other person serving the
City or using the streets and public
grounds of the City, and shall not
unnecessarily interrupt or obstruct
the use of any streets and public
grounds and, in connection with any
work, shall obtain any permits and
approvals required by the regulations
and ordinances of the City. Prior to
performing any work which would
affect or alter the City’s water mains,
sewage or draining system or any
other property of the City, Grantee
shall provide written notice to the
appropriate affected City agency or
office. When any streets and public
grounds are entered upon by the
Grantee, or facilities removed by the
Grantee, the Grantee shall at its cost
restore the same to their original condition. Grantee shall clear all streets
and public grounds of obstructions or
anything that might constitute a nuisance or prevent such streets and public grounds from being open and in
repair, if such obstruction or nuisance
was caused by the Grantee or related
to the operation of the Steam System.
If the Grantee fails to complete such
work within a reasonable period of
time, the appropriate officer of the
City may, in writing, notify the
Grantee that the City will complete
such work if not completed by the
Grantee as soon as practicable as
determined by the City after receipt
of notice by Grantee. Any work not
completed as determined by the City’s
officer may be completed by the City
and the actual out-of-pocket cost of
such work shall be charged to the
Grantee.
Upon the doing of such
work, the City shall furnish the
Grantee with itemized bills of the
actual out-of-pocket cost of the work,
and Grantee shall pay the bills within
thirty (30) days after its receipt.
Section 3. Applicable Regulations.
The Grantee shall at all times be
subject to the regulations imposed by
the laws of the United States of America, the laws of the State of Ohio and
the Charter and ordinances of the City
as may exist at the effective date of
this franchise or later be adopted,
including the continuing right of the
Council to require such reconstruction, relocation, repair, change or discontinuance of the appliances used by
the Steam System in the streets and
public grounds of the Service Area, all
at the cost of the Grantee, as shall, in
the opinion of the Council, be necessary in the public interest. The Council shall at all times control the distribution of space in, under, over, along,
across or upon all streets and public
grounds occupied by fixtures of the
Steam System. In the construction,
installation, maintenance or repair of
its properties, the Grantee shall comply with all laws and regulations
existing at the effective date of this
franchise or that may thereafter be
made by the City applicable to the
Grantee and the Grantee shall be
liable for damages caused by its failure or neglect to comply with such
laws and regulations and shall save
the City harmless from any and all
claims for damages by reason of such
failure or neglect.

1060

July 11, 2012
Section 4.
Indemnification and
Insurance.
The Grantee shall fully indemnify
and save harmless the City and its
respective
officers,
agents
and
employees from and against all damages, judgments, decrees, costs and
expenses for bodily injury or death to
persons, including employees of the
City and other persons, for losses and
physical damages to property of the
City or other persons, and for debts
incurred or taxes owed by Grantee or
its agents, employees or contractors,
caused by or as a result of the construction, installation, maintenance
and operation of, or the failure to
properly construct, install, maintain
and operate, the Steam System by the
Grantee.
The Grantee shall carry
insurance to cover and protect itself
and the City as an additional insured
from and against all claims, demands,
actions, judgments, costs, expenses
and liabilities which may arise or
result, directly or indirectly, from or
by reason of loss, injury or damage to
the City, its property or employees, or
to other persons or their property,
which may arise from the operations
of Grantee or its Steam System.
Grantee’s insurance company shall,
at its own expense, defend the City, if
requested by the City, in all litigation
or claims alleged to result from or
arise out of such activities or failure
to act of Grantee. The City shall duly
notify the insurance company of any
claims and shall deal directly with
such insurance carrier to seek
defense by such insurance carrier to
seek defense by such insurance company; provided, however, the City
shall not be required to institute legal
proceedings against such insurance
company if the insurance company
fails to defend. In the event Grantee’s
insurance company fails to defend the
City, then Grantee, at its own
expense, shall defend the City, if
requested by the City, in all litigation
or claims alleged to result from or
arise out of such activities or failure
to act of Grantee.
Copies of the
Grantee’s currently effective insurance policy and its currently effective
certificate of insurance showing the
City as an additional insured shall be
maintained on file with the Clerk of
Council of the City in the above mentioned file, with a copy provided to
the Director of Law of the City, beginning with the effective date of the
franchise extension. The amounts of
such insurance against, liability due
to physical damages to property shall
not be less than Twenty Million Dollars ($20,000,000) per occurrence and
aggregate; and against liability due
to bodily injury or to death of persons
not less than Twenty Million Dollars
($20,000,000) per occurrence and
aggregate. Grantee shall not reduce,
cancel or fail to promptly replace the
insurance described herein, and
should the insurer cancel such insurance, the Grantee shall immediately
notify the City. The City shall notify
the Grantee and its insurance carrier
in writing, within fifteen (15) business days after the presentation of
any claim or demand, either by suit or
otherwise, made against the City, and
not less than five (5) business days
prior to the date upon which an
answer to such legal action is due,
when the City determined that the
suit, claim or demand may involve the
Grantee or the operation of the Steam
System.

July 11, 2012
Section 5. Operation, Service and
Rates of the Steam System.
A. Service Connections and Delivery of Steam Service. Grantee shall,
so far as the capacity of its plant will
allow or to the extent of its capacity
obtained from alternate sources as
permitted pursuant to Section 1 hereof, deliver live steam or water to any
person or entity requesting Steam Service who complies with its reasonable
regulations and whose property
either abuts upon Grantee’s service
lines or can be legally and reasonably
be connected to the Steam System
(“Customer”). At the point of delivery, the steam will be dry and saturated in accordance with the steam
table established by American Society
of
Mechanical
Engineers
(“ASME”).
The Grantee shall be
responsible to maintain, at its
expense, all mains and lines up to the
property line of the Customer’s facility, except where otherwise set forth
in an agreement between Grantee and
a particular Customer, and shall keep
such lines in sound operating condition and free of undue leakage.
B. Abandonment of Services. In the
event Grantee makes an application
to the Public Utilities Commission of
Ohio (“PUCO”), to abandon service to
any part or all of its Service Area,
Grantee shall send a copy of any such
application to each of its then existing Customers.
C. Existing Rates. All valid contracts or agreements establishing
rates, charges or billing arrangements
between
Customers
and
Grantee (including, but not limited to,
agreements combining billings for
one or more premises owned or operated by a Customer) in effect as of the
effective date of this ordinance, shall
remain in effect until the expiration
of the contract or agreement as set
forth in such contract or agreement
(or as may have been extended by
PUCO order), except as may be
allowed or required by any Court or
arbitration panel, or as agreed by
Customer and Grantee. All tariff and
contract rates for Steam Service in
effect as of the effective date of this
ordinance shall, except for fuel
adjustment clause increases and
authorized by the PUCO or in accordance with Ohio law, remain in effect
through the term of the franchise.
D. Rates and Charges.
If the
Grantee and any Customer cannot
agree on a contract which sets rates
for Steam Service to that Customer,
the rates and charges for Steam Service rendered by Grantee for such
Customer or Customers shall be set by
the PUCO, by Council, or as otherwise
may be provided by law. During the
term of this franchise, Grantee shall,
upon the request of the City or Council, provide such data and information
as the City reasonably requires to
review the rates, charges, terms and
conditions of Steam Service provided
by Grantee. Nothing contained in the
subparagraph shall be deemed a
waiver of the Grantee to appeal to or
seek review of PUCO in connection
with any rates.
E. Contract Rates.
Grantee may
enter into contracts for the provision
of Steam Service to one or more of its
Customers provided that the contracts are entered into under the
requirements of the Revised Code or
filed with the PUCO under the terms
of Section 4905.31 of the Revised Code
and provided that copies of all contracts for Steam Service are provided

The City Record
to the Clerk of Council of the City to
be maintained in the Council file mentioned above, with copies provided to
the Director of Law of the City.
F. Quality of Service. The Grantee
shall at all times provide safe, adequate and reliable service to its Customers and shall, except as may otherwise be permitted by law, provide
same without discrimination. In so
doing, Grantee shall maintain the
Steam System in a manner to ensure
such service and to ensure the efficient and safe operation of the Steam
System. Grantee shall maintain the
Steam System so as to avoid substantial leakage, and shall promptly
repair material leaks in the Steam
System. Grantee shall also promptly
repair any pavement, tree lawn, curb
or other portion of the street or public
ground which is damaged by Grantee
or due to defects in or leaks in or emaIf
nating from the Steam System.
there is any dispute between Grantee
and a Customer as to whether the
Grantee or Customer is responsible to
repair damage in the streets or public
grounds caused by Grantee or due to
defects or leaks in the Steam System,
Grantee shall promptly make any necessary repairs pending resolution of
such dispute. The cost of such repairs
may be part of any such resolution,
and may be charged to the Customer
if it is determined that the repairs
were the responsibility of the Customer. The Grantee acknowledges its
obligation to operate and maintain
the Steam System so that it is not in
such condition as to be a hazard to the
health, safety or welfare of the public,
and acknowledges the right of the
City to reasonably require the
Grantee to make necessary repairs or
improvements to abate said condition.
Grantee shall promptly comply with
an order of the Director of the appropriate department of the City having
custody and control of the particular
property or the responsibility to
ensure the health, safety or welfare of
the public in the particular situation
to make any such repairs or improvements.
Minority Business Enterprise and
Female Business Enterprise Participation
and
Affirmative
Action.
Grantee shall use its best efforts to
meet the goals of the City in effect on
the effective date of this ordinance
with respect to minority enterprise
participation and female business
enterprise participation, i.e., thirty
percent (30%) and ten percent (10%),
respectively, in Grantee’s proposed
construction of the improvement and
expansion of the Steam System; provided, that in evaluating Grantee’s
efforts to meet such goals, the City
shall give consideration to the availability of certain specialty items of
equipment for the Steam System that
are not readily available from minority and female vendors.
Grantee shall adhere to the standards set forth in division (a) of Section 187.04 of the Codified Ordinances
of the City, as presently in effect with
respect
to
nondiscrimination
in
employment, and shall use its best
efforts to improve the percentage of
minority and female employment in
the various occupations involved in
the performance of the Grantee’s business. With respect to any construction of the improvement and expansion of the Steam System comprising
real property, Grantee shall comply
with the requirements of Chapter 188
of the Codified Ordinances of the City.

1061

5
Section 6. Transfers and Assignments.
The franchise granted to the
Grantee herein shall not be transferable either directly or indirectly
except with the consent of Council,
provided, however , that the grant of a
mortgage on or security interest in or
assignment of real or personal property comprising the Steam System,
including but not limited to Grantee’s
right to receive payments from Cuswith
tomers (including the City)
respect to the Steam System, as collateral security for financing of obligations of Grantee, shall not constitute
or be deemed to be a transfer for purposes of this Section 6; and provided,
further that nothing in any such mortgage, security interest or assignment
shall purport to transfer the franchise
granted herein except with the conAdditionally,
sent of Council.
Grantee shall not, without consent of
Council, either directly or indirectly,
consolidate, merge or in any other
way give or permit control of the management of its business to or by any
other heating, cooling or power company now operating or that may in
the future operate in the City, including any company which would by
such action by Grantee first enter into
the business of providing heating,
cooling or power, nor shall Grantee
assign or transfer so much of the
assets of the Steam System so as to
render Grantee unable to continue
providing
adequate
service
as
required herein. Notwithstanding the
provisions of this Section 6, the capital stock or all or substantially all of
the assets and business of Grantee
may, without the prior approval of
Council, be (i) transferred to any corporation or other entity which is affiliated with Grantee or (ii) consolidated or merged with, or the control of
Grantee’s management may be transferred to, any corporation or other
entity which is affiliated with
Grantee. For purposes of this section,
the term “affiliate” shall mean any
person or entity directly or indirectly
controlling, controlled by or under
common control with another person
or entity.
Section 7. Right of Purchase by the
City.
Under Section 183 of the Charter of
the City of Cleveland, there is
reserved to the City the right to terminate this franchise and to purchase
all of the property of the Grantee in
the streets and highways in the City
and elsewhere used in or useful for
the operation of the utility at a price
to be fixed in the manner provided in
the following sentence. If the City
and Grantee cannot agree on the price
to be paid by the City for such property, the value shall be determined by
three appraisers, one each selected by
the City and Grantee, and the other
selected by the two appraisers
appointed.
If the three appraisers
cannot agree upon a value for such
property, the average of the three separate appraisals of the appraisers
shall be the value of such property.
The standard to be used by the
appraisers shall be the fair market
value of such property as a going concern. Further, to the extent provided
in Section 184 of the Charter of the
City, the price to be paid by the City
for the property that may be acquired
by the City from the Grantee, by purchase, condemnation, or otherwise,
shall exclude all additional value of
the grant or renewal of this franchise.

6
Section 8. Renewal of Franchise.
Council may, by ordinance, renew
the franchise at the expiration of this
franchise upon terms conducive to the
public interest.
Section 9. Non-Exclusivity of Franchise.
No rights herein granted to the
Grantee
to
construct,
maintain,
install or operate the Steam System
shall be construed as exclusive or as
preventing the City from granting a
franchise or privilege to any other
person, firm or corporation.
Section 10. Permits.
The Director of Public Service and
other appropriate City officials are
hereby authorized to issue such permits to the Grantee and any of its construction contractors or subcontractors for construction, installation and
operation of the Steam System as may
be required by law without further
action of the Council. Permits shall
be issued upon Grantee’s compliance
with the applicable procedures for
obtaining permits and in accordance
with
the
requirements
of
law.
Grantee shall comply with all existing City and State air pollution permits to operate which are applicable
to the Steam System.
Section 11. PUCO.
Grantee shall provide to the City’s
Director of Law timely copies of all
notices, filings, applications and all
other documents submitted to the
PUCO concerning or affecting the
Steam System, including copies
received by Grantee of any complaints or correspondence submitted
to the PUCO concerning the Grantee
or any affiliate or Steam System, but
not including such documents which
solely relate to any other Steam System. Grantee shall not object to or
contest the right of the City to intervene in any proceeding initiated by
Grantee, the PUCO or a third party
concerning Grantee, any affiliate, or
the Steam System.
Section 12. Notices and Reports.
Grantee shall provide notice to a
designated representative of each
Customer of any work by Grantee on
the Steam System, or of any change in
its operation, which could materially
and adversely affect service to such
Customer. Grantee shall also respond
to any reasonable requests of a Customer for information, including
available Steam System efficiency
measurements and studies. In addition, Grantee shall provide a copy of
an audited balance sheet and a schedule of major capital improvements
annually, at the end of each full fiscal
year, to the Clerk of Council, for filing
in the Council file mentioned above
and shall provide copies of such submittals to the Director of Law of the
City.
Section 14. Revocation and Amendment.
The Council hereby reserves the
right at any time to repeal for cause
or to properly amend the ordinance
granting this franchise or to revoke
for cause the privileges granted in
whole or in part.
Section 15. Default.
Grantee shall be in default of its
franchise if Council finds, after providing notice and an opportunity to be
heard, that Grantee has abandoned or
discontinued Steam Service or has
materially failed to comply with the
terms of this franchise.
Upon Council determination of
default by the Grantee, the City may,
at its option, exercise, concurrently or

The City Record
successively, any one or more of the
following rights and remedies:
to
seek a court order to enjoin any abandonment or discontinuance of Steam
Service or any failure to comply with
the terms of this franchise; to bring
suit or complaint at the PUCO or elsewhere
for
the
performance
of
Grantee’s obligation to provide Steam
Service and to comply with the terms
of this franchise; to terminate the
franchise; or in the event of an actual
or effective abandonment or discontinuance of Steam Service, to seek
Court appointment of a receiver to
continue operation of the Steam System until the Steam System can be
sold or transferred to an entity
approved by the City and Council.
These rights and remedies are in
addition to any other rights and remedies permitted to the City by the
terms of this franchise or by law.
Section 4. That existing Section 2 of
Ordinance No. 550-12, passed April 30,
2012, is repealed.
Section 5. That except as amended
and corrected in this ordinance, Ordinance No. 550-12, passed April 30, 2012,
shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 6. That this ordinance shall
take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by
law.

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

July 5, 2012
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Thursday, July 5, 2012 at
10:38 a.m. with Acting Director Horvath presiding.
Present: Acting Director Horvath,
Director Dumas, Acting Director R.
Johnson,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Thompson, Directors Flask,
Rush, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Butler and Southerington.
Others: D. Anthony, Acting Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Division of Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 291-12.
By Director Dumas.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
734-12, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 4, 2012,
Official Payments Corp. is selected
from a list of firms determined after
a full and complete canvass by the
Director of Finance as the firm to
be employed by contract to supplement the regularly employed staff
of several departments of the City
of Cleveland to perform the professional services necessary to install,
design, train, implement, test, integrate, migrate, maintain, and provide technical support and other

1062

July 11, 2012
related
services,
including
any
equipment, for a web-based payment
system, including a vendor-hosted
solution to process payments via online, an integrated voice recognition
(IVR) solution, and point of sale
(POS) solution, for the Division of
Assessments and Licenses, Department of Finance.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into contract with Official
Payments Corp., based on its proposal dated March 29, 2012, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, and shall provide
for the furnishing of professional
services as described in the proposal for an aggregate fee of $90,000.00,
and shall contain such additional
provisions as the Director of Law
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director Dumas, Acting Director R.
Johnson,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Thompson, Directors Flask,
Rush, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Butler and Southerington.
Resolution No. 292-12.
By Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 556-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 9, 2008, the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to purchase
customer-owned transformation and
other electric facilities serving a
specific customer if such purchase
would
relieve
Cleveland
Public
Power (CPP) from incurring the
expense of installing such facilities,
provided that the price of such customer-owned
facilities
does
not
exceed their fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control;
and
Whereas, CPP will be providing
electric service to the new Nine Mile
Creek tunneling operation and pump
station under construction by the
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (NEORSD); and
Whereas,
NEORSD’s
project
includes the construction of an electrical substation which if owned by
CPP would enable CPP to provide
electric service to the tunneling
operation and pump station without
incurring the cost of constructing
such facilities; and
Whereas, in anticipation of integrating the substation into CPP’s
transmission
system,
NEORSD
included certain additional equipment in the construction project necessary to integrate the substation
into CPP’s transmission control center and security system, at a cost of
$178,251.53; and
Whereas, NEORSD has agreed to
sell the Nine Mile Creek substation
to CPP for solely the cost of the
additional equipment installed to
integrate the substation into CPP’s
system provided that CPP assumes
all future maintenance and regulatory
compliance
responsibilities;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 556-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 9, 2008, this Board determines
that the fair market value of the
Nine Mile Creek substation con-

The City Record

July 11, 2012
structed and owned by the Northeast
Ohio Regional Sewer District is not
less than $178,251.53.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director Dumas, Acting Director R.
Director
Smith,
Acting
Johnson,
Director Thompson, Directors Flask,
Rush, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Butler and Southerington.
Resolution No. 293-12.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Petty Group, LLC for an
estimated quantity of fence installation, maintenance and/or repair,
Option 1 (all items), for the various
divisions of the Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one (1)
year starting upon the execution of
the contract, received on May 16,
2012, under the authority of Ordinance No. 395-09, passed April 20,
2009, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$626,335.39 (2%-10 days), is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid; and the Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
services,
which
contract
and/or
shall provide for the initial order,
the cost of which shall be certified
to the contract in an amount not
less than $60,000.00
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirement for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified against
the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor for the
above-mentioned requirement contract is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

Tech Ready Mix

CSB/MBE/FBE
WORK
CSB/MBE
TBD

Work Best Electric
CSB/FBE
$12,640.00 (2.018%)
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director Dumas, Acting Director R.
Johnson,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Thompson, Directors Flask,
Rush, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Butler and Southerington.
Resolution No. 294-12.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by EnviroCom Construction, Inc., under City Contract
No.
PI2012*002
for
the
public
improvement
of
renovating
and
upgrading the Federal Services Station Building at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, authorized by
Ordinance No. 273-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 8, 2009, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 465-11, as amended by
Resolution No. 127-12, adopted September 21, 2011 and March 28, 2012,
respectively, is approved.

CSB/MBE/FBE %
Amount

Subconsultant

SoundCom Systems Corporation
7.76% Non CSB/MBE/FBE
$125,000.00
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director Dumas, Acting Director R.
Johnson,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Thompson, Directors Flask,
Rush, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Butler and Southerington.
Resolution No. 295-12.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of The Shelly Company, for an estimated quantity of asphalt for runways, taxiways, ramps and roadways, including labor and materials
for repair and installation, all items,
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of two years beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
with two one-year options to renew,
received on April 13, 2012, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 1718-11,
passed on January 23, 2012, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to $1,389,000.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and services necessary, which
contract shall provide for an initial
order, the cost of which shall be certified to the contract in an amount
not less than $69,450.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subcontractors by The Shelly Company is
approved:
CSB/MBE/FBE %
Amount

Subcontractor

Cook Paving & Constr.
Co., Inc.
12.00% CSB/MBE
$166,680.00
Friedel Trucking
Co., Inc.

5.00% CSB/FBE
$ 69,450.00

PGT Construction, Inc.
5.00% CSB/FBE
$ 69,450.00
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director Dumas, Acting Director R.
Johnson,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Thompson, Directors Flask,
Rush, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Butler and Southerington.
Resolution No. 296-12.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of VanCuren Services, Inc.,
for an estimated quantity of urban
forest property maintenance service,
Items Group 1(A), (B), (C), (D),
tree pruning, Group 2 (A), (B) tree

1063

7
removal and Group 3 root stump
removal, all items, for the Division
of Park Maintenance and Properties,
for a one-year period beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
with a one-year option to renew,
received on April 12, 2012, under the
authority of Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$107,664.00 (Net), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Works is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which contract shall provide for an initial order, the cost of
which shall be certified to the contract in an amount not less than
$5,383.20.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director Dumas, Acting Director R.
Director
Smith,
Acting
Johnson,
Director Thompson, Directors Flask,
Rush, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Butler and Southerington.
Resolution No. 297-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 134-02-036 located at 7419 Park
Ave. in Ward 12; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Jason C. Kirksey has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcels for a yard
expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Jason C. Kirksey
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 134-02-036 located
at 7419 Park Ave., according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be

The City Record

8
$420.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Acting Director Horvath,
Director Dumas, Acting Director R.
Johnson,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Thompson, Directors Flask,
Rush, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Butler and Southerington.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JULY 23, 2012
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 12-110: 7200 Brookpark
Road (Ward 13)
M&G Equities, a New York Partnership, owner, and HH Gregg
appeal to erect wall signs that measure 7' x 28' and 2'-4" x 28' and
10'-6" x 40' of single faced signage
on a building located on property in
a C1 General Retail Business District for the first 80 feet of frontage
and the balance in a C3 Semi-Industry District; requesting 950 square
feet of sign area, contrary to 486
square feet that is allowed for sign
uses in an industrial district, as regulated in the Schedule of Permitted
Types, Number, Area and Height
under Section 350.15(a) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Taxi Driver’s License
Calendar
No.
12-113:
Ahmed
Warsame
Ahmed Warsame appeals under
the authority of Section 76-6 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland

July 11, 2012

from a decision of the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses to
deny his application for a 2011-2012
Taxi Driver’s License under the provisions in Section 443.131(b) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.

fence and a gate to enclose a parcel in an A1 One-Family District.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.

Calendar No. 12-114: 4159 Lee Road
(Ward 1)
Golden Arch Realty Corporation,
owner, appeals for an expansion of
restaurant use to include a drive
through lane on an acreage corner
parcel located in a C1 General
Retail Business District; subject to
Section 349.15(c) bicycle parking is
required at the ratio of 1 for every
20 automobile spaces and for 36 auto
spaces, 2 spaces are required and
none are proposed; and in the prothe
visions under Section 347.16
operator of a drive through establishment shall keep the premises
free of excess litter originating from
the use and shall have refuse containers readily available for use by
customers; and in accordance with
Section 347.16(g)(2), a 10 feet wide
screened landscape strip is required
at the north side of the lot where it
abuts a residential district; and by
provisions
under
Section
the
347.16(g)(6), retail sales from drive
through lanes of a drive through
establishment abutting a residential
use shall be prohibited from 11:00
PM to 6:00 AM daily; and a landscape strip 6 feet wide is required
along Lotus Drive where the parking lot abuts the street according to
Section 352.10 in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

The following appeals were POSTPONED:
None.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on July 2, 2012 were
adopted and approved on July 9,
2012.
The
following
DENIED:

appeals

were

Violation Notice
Calendar No. 12-100: 3821 Lorain
Avenue
William
and
Ellen
Mueller
appealed from a Notice of Violation
issued by the Department of Building and Housing.
Violation Notice
Calendar No. 12-101: 15645 Puritas
Avenue
Peachtree Family Limited, owner,
and Martin Davidson, managing
agent
for
Winwood
Properties,
appealed from a Notice of Violation
issued by the Department of Building and Housing.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
NO MEETING
MONDAY, JULY 9, 2012

PUBLIC NOTICE
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, July 9,
2012, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 12-105: 2317 West 6th
Street
Anthony Hughes appealed to erect
120 lineal feet of wooden fence 6
feet and 4 feet high on a lot in a
B1 Two-Family District; subject to
updated plan.
Calendar No. 12-106: 1019 Kenilworth
Avenue
Bentley Books, LLC and David
Ferrante appealed to erect a frame
open deck to the front wall of a rear
single family residence in a C1
Local Retail Business District.
Calendar
No.
12-12:
5418
Fleet
Avenue
2281 Sullivant LLC/Amer Ahmad
appealed to change use from storage
to a minor motor vehicle repair use
in a B1 Local Retail Business District; subject to conditions.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 12-93: 4603 East 147th
Street
Carol Joiner appealed to erect 100
lineal feet of 4 foot high chain link

1064

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.

July 11, 2012
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, JULY 27, 2012
File No. 86-12 — Front Entry Door
Replacement Police Headquarters
Building, for the Division of
Architecture and Site DevelopDepartment
of
Public
ment,
Works, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1737-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 8, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
OF
TWENTY-FIVE
AMOUNT
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2012 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 517A, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
File No. 92-12 — 2012 Safety Surface
and Signage Improvements, for
the Division of Architecture and
Site Development, Department of
Public Works, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 534-12, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 4, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT
OF
TWENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2012 AT
2:00
P.M.
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL, ROOM 517A, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.

July 11, 2012 and July 18, 2012

The City Record
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2012
File No. 87-12 — Kovacic Recreation
Center Roof and Locker Room
Improvements, for the Division of
Architecture and Site Development,
Department
of
Public
Works, as authorized by Ordinance No. 452-11, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 16, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
OF
TWENTY-FIVE
AMOUNT
DOLLARS ($25.00) ONLY IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2012 AT
11:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 517A, 601 LAKEAVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
SIDE
OHIO 44114.
File No. 95-12 — Purchase of Gasoline, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Works, as authorized
by
Ordinance
No.
1330-A-10,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, December 6, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, JULY 20, 2012 AT 10:30 A.M.
DIVISION
OF
MOTOR
THE
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150
EAST 49TH STREET, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
July 11, 2012 and July 18, 2012
FRIDAY, AUGUST 3, 2012
File No. 96-12 — Purchase of Labor
and Materials to Maintain and
Repair Low-Pressure Steam Boilers and Appurtenances (Re-Bid),
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1216-11,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, October 10, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2012 AT
11:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
4TH FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
File No. 97-12 — Ion Chromatograph
and Appurtenances (Re-Bid), for
the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 485-96,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, May 6, 1996.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2012 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
4TH FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
File No. 98-12 — Sewer Test Tee
Inspection,
Installation
and
Snaking, for the Division of

1065

9
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 541.13 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY,
JULY 20, 2012 AT 11:00 A.M. THE
DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL, 12302 KIRBY
AVENUE, RED CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.

July 11, 2012 and July 18, 2012
THURSDAY, AUGUST 9, 2012
File No. 88-12 — Gutter Broom
Streets
and
Coreless
Tube
for
the
Division
of
Brooms,
Streets, Department of Public
Works, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2012 AT
11:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF STREETS,
ROOM 25 CONFERENCE ROOM,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

July 11, 2012 and July 18, 2012
THURSDAY, AUGUST 16, 2012
File No. 89-12 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Remove Rubber
and
Any
Other
Contaminants
from Paved Surfaces, for the Various Divisions of Port Control,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 74512, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 4, 2012.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
WEDNESDAY, JULY 25, 2012 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT, CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44135-3193.
File No. 90-12 — Furniture for the
Various Divisions of the Department of Port Control, for the Various Divisions of Port Control,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, JULY 24, 2012 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT, CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44135-3193.
File No. 91-12 — Labor and Materials Necessary for Repairing or
Replacing Roofs (Re-Bid), for the
Various Divisions of Port Control,
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 95611, Passed by the Council of the

The City Record

10
City of Cleveland, August 17,
2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, JULY 23, 2012 AT 10:00 A.M.
THE
CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT,
CENTRAL RECEIVING BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.
July 11, 2012 and July 18, 2012
FRIDAY, AUGUST 17, 2012
File No. 93-12 — Purchase of Various Engine Parts and Labor, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Works, as authorized by Section 131.64 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.

THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, JULY 20, 2012 AT 9:30 A.M.
DIVISION
OF
MOTOR
THE
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150
EAST 49TH STREET, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.

July 11, 2012
EAST 49TH STREET,
LAND, OHIO 44105.

CLEVE-

July 11, 2012 and July 18, 2012

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
File No. 94-12 — Various Specialty
Tires, Tubes and Related Equipment (Re-bid), for the Division of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 1330A-10, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 6,
2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, JULY 20, 2012 AT 10:00 A.M.
THE
DIVISION
OF
MOTOR
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150

AND ORDINANCES

NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

NO MEETINGS

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Board of Control — Assessments and Licenses Division
Web-based payment system (IVR/POS) — per Ord. 734-12 to Official Payments Corp. — Dept.
of Finance (BOC Res. 291-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Federal Services Station Building renovation and upgrade — approve subcontractors —
Contract #PI2012*002 per BOC Res. 465-11, 127-12 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 294-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Nine Mile Creek substation — purchase from Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District
(NEORSD) per Ord. 556-08 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 292-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Park Avenue, 7419 (Ward 12) — PPN 134-02-036 — Jason C. Kirksey (BOC Res. 297-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063

Board of Control — Finance Department
Web-based payment system (IVR/POS) — per Ord. 734-12 to Official Payments Corp. —
Division of Assessments and Licenses (BOC Res. 291-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Park Avenue, 7419 (Ward 12) — PPN 134-02-036 — Jason C. Kirksey (BOC Res. 297-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063

Board of Control — Park Maintenance and Properties Division
Urban Forestry Property Maintenance Services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
VanCuren Services, Inc. — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 296-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Asphalt for runways, taxiways, ramps, and roadways — per Ord. 1718-11 to The Shelly
Company (BOC Res. 295-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Federal Services Station Building renovation and upgrade — approve subcontractors —
Contract #PI2012*002 per BOC Res. 465-11, 127-12 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (BOC Res. 294-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Web-based payment system (IVR/POS) — per Ord. 734-12 to Official Payments Corp. —
Division of Assessments and Licenses, Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 291-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062

1066

July 11, 2012

The City Record

11

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Federal Services Station Building renovation and upgrade — approve subcontractors —
Contract #PI2012*002 per BOC Res. 465-11, 127-12 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 294-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Fence installation, maintenance and repair — per Ord. 395-09 to Petty Group,
LLC (BOC Res. 293-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Nine Mile Creek substation — purchase from Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District
(NEORSD) per Ord. 556-08 — Division of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 292-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Urban Forestry Property Maintenance Services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
VanCuren Services, Inc. — Division of Park Maintenance and Properties (BOC Res. 296-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Asphalt for runways, taxiways, ramps, and roadways — per Ord. 1718-11 to The Shelly
Company — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 295-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Fence installation, maintenance and repair — per Ord. 395-09 to Petty Group, LLC — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 293-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063
Urban Forestry Property Maintenance Services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
VanCuren Services, Inc. — Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Dept.
of Public Works (BOC Res. 296-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1063

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Nine Mile Creek substation — purchase from Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District
(NEORSD) per Ord. 556-08 — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 292-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1062

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
East 147th Street, 4603, (Ward 1) – Carol Joiner, owner — appeal withdrawn on 7/9/12
(Cal. 12-93) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleet Avenue, 5418, (Ward 12) – 2281 Sullivant, LLC / Amer Al Ahmad, owner — appeal heard
on 7/9/12 (Cal. 12-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kenilworth Avenue, 1019, (Ward 3) – Bentley Books, LLC and Dave Ferrante, owners — appeal
heard on 7/9/12 (Cal. 12-106) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 3821, (Ward 15) – William and Ellen Mueller, owners — appeal denied and
adopted on 7/9/12 (Cal. 12-100) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Avenue, 15645, (Ward 19) – Peachtree Family Limited, owner and Martin Davidson,
managing agent for Winwood Properties — appeal denied and adopted on 7/9/12 (Cal. 12-101) . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th Street, 2317, (Ward 3) – Anthony Hughes, owner — appeal heard on
7/9/12 (Cal. 12-105). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. 1064
. 1064
. 1064
. 1064
. 1064
. 1064

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Brookpark Road, 7200, (Ward 13) – M&G Equities, a New York Partnership, owner and
HH Gregg — appeal to be heard on 7/23/12 (Cal. 12-110) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Lee Road, 4159, (Ward 1) – Golden Arch Realty Corporation, owner — appeal to be heard on
7/23/12 (Cal. 12-114) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064
Warsame, Ahmed – appeal to be heard on 7/23/12 (Cal. 12-113) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1064

City of Cleveland Bids
Boiler, low pressure steam system repair and maintenance (Re-Bid) — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 1216-11 — bid due August 3, 2012
(advertised 7/11/2012 and 7/18/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Door, front entry replacement at Police Headquarters Building — Department of Public
Works — Division of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 1737-08 — bid due
July 27, 2012 (advertised 7/11/2012 and 7/18/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engine parts and labor — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance — per C.O. Sec. 131.64 — bid due August 17, 2012 (advertised 7/11/2012
and 7/18/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Furniture — Department of Port Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due August 16, 2012
(advertised 7/11/2012 and 7/18/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gasoline — Department of Public Works — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord.
1330-A-10 — bid due August 1, 2012 (advertised 7/11/2012 and 7/18/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gutter broom sets and coreless tube brooms — Department of Public Works — Division
of Streets — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due August 9, 2012 (advertised 7/11/2012
and 7/18/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1067

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065

The City Record

12

Ion chromatograph and appurtenances (Re-Bid) — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water — per Ord. 485-96 — bid due August 3, 2012 (advertised 7/11/2012 and 7/18/2012) .
Remove rubber and other contaminants from paved surfaces — Department of Port Control —
per Ord. 745-12 — bid due August 16, 2012 (advertised 7/11/2012 and 7/18/2012) . . . . . . . . . . .
Roof and locker room improvements at Kovacic Recreation Center — Department of
Public Works — Division of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 452-11 — bid
due August 1, 2012 (advertised 7/11/2012 and 7/18/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roof repair and replacement (Re-bid) — Department of Port Control — per Ord. 956-11 — bid
due August 16, 2012 (advertised 7/11/2012 and 7/18/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Safety and Signage improvements, 2012 — Department of Public Works — Division
of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 534-12 — bid due July 27, 2012
(advertised 7/11/2012 and 7/18/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewer test tee inspection, installation and snaking — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 541.13 — bid due August 3, 2012
(advertised 7/11/2012 and 7/18/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tires (specialty), tubes and equipment (Re-bid) — Department of Public Works — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1330-A-10 — bid due August 17, 2012
(advertised 7/11/2012 and 7/18/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

July 11, 2012
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066

Franchises
Utilities Department — DPU — Cleveland Thermal, LLC ( O 952-12 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1059

Utilities Department
DPU — Cleveland Thermal, LLC ( O 952-12 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1059

1068

