The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Eleventh, Two Thousand and Twelve

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
11
11
13
13
14
16
16
16
16
16
17

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ..................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek.............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli.................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley.................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ...........................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone ....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ..................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady .........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Interim Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100

DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Interim Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – ______________, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Interim Director, Mural Building, 75
Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry, President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President
Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Interim Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry; Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Interim Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Chairman; Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney;
Councilman Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Interim Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan – Courtroom 13A
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 2012

Vol. 99

No. 5118

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Committee:
Cimperman,
Services
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 9, 2012
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, the President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Conwell,
Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane,
Kelley, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,
Pruitt, Reed, Sweeney, Westbrook
and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff, Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer, Valarie J. McCall, Chief
of Government Affairs, Chris Warren, Chief of Regional Development,
Monyka S. Price, Chief of Education,
Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary,
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of
Public Affairs, and Interim Law
Director
Langhenry,
Directors
Dumas, Wasik, Butler, Cox, Rush,
Rybka,
Southerington,
Brown,
Fumich and Ambrose.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Pastor Steven C. Valles of Westside
Seventh-day Adventist Church, located at 327 Canterbery Court. Pledge
of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Keane, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Johnson.
OATH OF OFFICE

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

File No. 21-12.
Jason A. Wood — Assistant Director of the Department of Public Utilities. Received.

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.

File No. 22-12.
Keith A. Cromer — Interim Assistant Director of the Department of
Public Utilities. Received.

13

NOTIFICATION OF SUBSIDIARY
AGREEMENT
File No. 23-12.
From Director of Port Control —
Contract #PI2010*071 with Independence Excavating for the Runway
10-28 Safety Area — Phase 2 Project.
Received.
FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 24-12.
Re: #1405056 — D5A, New Application — Checo Holding Cleveland
DWTN LLC, d.b.a. Cleveland Downtown Hampton Inn, 1440 East 9th
Street. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 25-12.
Re: #2621017 — D5J, New Application
—
Fairfield
Investments,
LLC, d.b.a. Cowell & Hubbard, 1305
Euclid Avenue. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 26-12.
Re: #2653003 — D5, D6, Transfer
of Ownership Application — Farryland, LLC, d.b.a. Flying Monkey
Pub, 1st floor, basement and patio,
819 Jefferson Avenue. (Ward 3).
Received.
File No. 27-12.
Re: #7457649 — D5N, New Application — Rock Ohio Caesars Cleveland, LLC, d.b.a. Horseshoe Cleveland, 100 Public Square. (Ward 3).
Received.
File No. 28-12.
Re: #2538153 — D1, D2, D3, D6,
Stock Transfer Application — Erie
Tavern, Inc., d.b.a. Erie Tavern, 5393
St. Clair Avenue, 1st floor and basement. (Ward 8). Received.
File No. 29-12.
Re: #77089790005 — D3 Transfer
Ownership and Location Application
— Pololu, Ltd, 12018 Mayfield Road.
(Ward 9). Received.
File No. 30-12.
Re: #7230908 — C1, C2, Transfer
Ownership Application — Reanad &
Reanad, LLC, d.b.a. excludes 2nd
Floor and Basement, 10109 11 St.
Clair Avenue. (Ward 9). Received.
File No. 31-12.
Re: #3541757– C2, C2X Transfer
Ownership Application — Melanie A.
Hamdallah, d.b.a. Woodside Foods,
1st Floor and Basement, 12713 -17
Woodside
Avenue.
(Ward
10).
Received.
File No. 32-12.
Re: #0597266 — C1, C2, D6 Transfer Ownership Application — Bellaire Gas Way, Inc., d.b.a. Marathon,
1st
Floor,
10606
Bellaire
Road.
(Ward 14). Received.

The City Record

4
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 33-12—Mary C. Zunt.
Res. No. 34-12—Willie Gene Harris.
Res. No. 35-12—Deacon Mack N.
Stover.
No.
36-12—Margaret
A.
Res.
Mochan.
Res. No. 37-12—Nellie Mae Clark
Robinson.
Res. No. 38-12—Frank William
Anderson.
Res. No. 39-12—Rev. Freddie L.
Brown.
Res. No. 40-12—France Bell Green.
Res. No. 41-12—Virginia (Choma)
Chuhran.
Res. No. 42-12—Capt. Walter T.
May.
Res. No. 43-12—Charlesetta Matthews.
Res.
No.
44-12—Wanda
Rezina
“Zaza” Banks.
Res. No. 45-12—Arthur G. Saunders.
Res. No. 46-12—Sandra A. WrightWatford.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 47-12—Samuel Kelly Cimperman.
Res. No. 48-12—Susie L. Fuller.
Res. No. 49-12—Donna Kelso Nelson.
Res. No. 50-12—Doris Nemer.
Res. No. 51-12—St. Ignatius High
School Football Team — Division I
State Champions.
Res. No. 52-12—St. Ignatius High
School Soccer Team — Division I
State Champions.
Res. No. 53-12—Herman & Malinda
Douthard.
Res. No. 54-12—The Literary Café
— 25th Anniversary.
Res.
No.
55-12—Special
Agent
Pamela J. Forgach.
Res. No. 56-12—Fr. Michael Surufka, O.F.M..
Res. No. 57-12—Rev. Joseph A.
Bacevice.
Res. No. 58-12—Bryan Pierce.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 59-12—Cleveland Peacemakers Alliance.
Res. No. 60-12—Greater Cleveland
Aquarium.
Res. No. 61-12—Charles “Charlie”
Demore.
Res. No. 62-12—Tallerworks Music
& Legacy Exhibition.
Res.
No.
63-12—Terrance
C.Z.
Egger.
Res.
No.
64-12—Jerry
L.
Kelsheimer.
Res. No. 65-12—Zev Weiss.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 66-12—Julius Mitchell, Jr.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1-12.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the first option to renew Contract
No. 69192 with SS&G Financial Services, Inc. to provide professional services necessary to assist the Division
of Assessments and Licenses with
improving its audit practices and procedures.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 182-09, passed March 9,
2009, the Director of Finance entered
into Contract No. 69192 with SS&G
Financial Services, Inc. to provide
professional services necessary to
assist the Division of Assessments
and Licenses with improving its audit
practices and procedures; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 182-09
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to exercise the
first option to renew Contract No.
69192 for an additional year with
SS&G Financial Services, Inc. to provide professional services necessary
to assist the Division of Assessments
and Licenses with improving its audit
practices and procedures. This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required by Ordinance No. 182-09 to exercise this
option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 2-12.
By Council Members Mitchell,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation to encroach into the
public right-of-way of East 96th Street
by installing, using, and maintaining
an areaway/sidewalk elevator and
electrical UPS room under the sidewalk.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44195 (“Permittee”), to encroach
into the public right-of-way of East
96th Street below grade, by installing,
using,
and
maintaining
an
areaway/sidewalk elevator and electrical UPS room under the sidewalk,
at the following location:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF AN ENCROACHMENT
UNDER EAST 96TH STREET
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

14

January 11, 2012
Ohio, and being an area within East
96th Street, 66 feet in width, and being
more
particularly
bounded
and
described as follows:
Commencing from the intersection
of the centerline of said East 96th
Street and the centerline of Euclid
Avenue, width varies;
Thence South 00°11'06" West, a distance of 692.54 feet along the centerline of said East 96th Street to a point;
Thence North 89°48'54" West, a distance of 17.00 feet to a point, said
point being the True Point of Beginning of the herein described encroachment area;
Thence South 00°11'06" West, a distance of 64.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 89°48'54" West, a distance of 16.00 feet to a point on the
westerly right-of-way line of said
East 96th Street;
Thence North 00°11'06" East, a distance of 64.00 feet along the westerly
right-of-way line of said East 96th
Street to a point;
Thence South 89°48'54" East, a distance of 16.00 feet to the True Point of
Beginning, containing 0.0742 acres,
more or less, according to a survey by
Michael Benza and Associates, Inc.
and proposed building plans and subject to all legal easements, restrictions, reservations, conditions and
rights-of-way of previous record.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications approved by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all
other required permits, including but
not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
Permittee has properly indemnified
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 3-12.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts without competitive bidding with BissNuss Inc., the Northeast Ohio Regional representative of
various proprietary equipment and
services in order to maintain and
replace existing components of the
chemical feed systems, for the Divi-

January 11, 2012
sion of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period not to exceed
two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
BissNuss Inc., who is the Northeast
Ohio Regional representative of the
following various proprietary equipment and services: Siemens Water
Technologies, Inc., Force Flow Inc.,
ASCO, Inc., Gastronics, Inc., Henry
Pratt, Inc., Ross Valves, Inc., ITT
Fabrivalve, Inc., Milton Roy Americas, BNR, Inc., Wilo, Inc., Jim Myers &
Sons, Inc., Enviropax, Inc. and ClaVal, Inc. in order to maintain and
replace existing components of the
chemical feed systems. Therefore, the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one or more written
requirement contracts with BissNuss
Inc., for the requirements for a period
not to exceed two years for the necessary equipment and services manufactured by the above-listed manufacturers, but provided by BissNuss Inc.,
to be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a delivery order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RQN 2002, RL 2011-54)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 4-12.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 14500 Broxton Avenue to
Cynthia J. Stowasser.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated
within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Revised
Code and Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of

The City Record
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Cynthia J. Stowasser.
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold under this ordinance is more
fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 024-27-032
Parcel No. A
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as part of Original
Rockport Township, Section No. 19
and bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
The Iroquois Realty Company’s property as registered under Certificate of
Title No, 1824 at a point South 00
degree 27' 17" West 488.42 feet measured along said Easterly line of the
The Iroquois Realty Company’s Property from its point of intersection
with the Northerly line of the said
The Iroquois Realty Company’s Property. Said beginning point is at the
Intersection of said Easterly line of
The Iroquois Realty Company’s property and the Northerly line extended
of Broxton Avenue. N.W., Thence
North 76 degree 46' 20" West along
the northerly line of Broxton Avenue,
N.W., and its Easterly extension
203.26 feet to the principal place of
beginning.
Course 1.
Thence North 76 degree 46' 20"
West 40 feet along the Northerly line
of Broxton Avenue, N.W.
Course 2.
Thence North 13 degree 13' 40" East
119.86 feet.
Course 3.
Thence South 83 degree 55'25" East
40.31feet.
Course 4.
Thence South 13 degree 13' 40"
West 124.88 feet to the Northerly line
of Broxton Avenue, N.W., and the
principal place of beginning, being
further known as Sublot No. 32 in the
Elworthy-Helwick Company’s Proposed Roxboro Park Allotment, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Parcel No. B
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original Rockport Township Section
No. 19 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning in the northerly line of
Broxton Avenue, N.W., (50 feet wide)
at the southeasterly corner of premises registered in Bessie Gray Munson
in Certificate of Title No. 14016 of
Cuyahoga County Records.
Course 1.
Thence North 76 degree 46' 20"
West along said northerly line of
Broxton Avenue, N.W., 15 feet.
Course 2.
Thence North 13 degree 13' 40"
East, parallel with the easterly line of
premises registered in said Certificate No. 14016, about 117.98 feet to the
northerly line of said premises.
Course 3.
Thence South 83 degree 55' 25" East
along the northerly line of premises
registered in said Certificate No.
14016, 15.12 feet to the northeasterly
corner of said premises.

15

5
Course 4.
Thence South 13 degree 13' 40"
West along the easterly line of
premises registered in said Certificate No. 14016, 119.86 feet to the place
of beginning and being further
known as the easterly 15 feet front of
Sublot 31 in the Elworthy-Helwick
Company’s proposed Roxboro Park
Allotment, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall not be less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
made by official deed prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain such provisions as may be necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest including such restrictive covenants and
reversionary interests as may be specified by the Board of Control, the
Director of Community Development
or the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 5-12.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 10003 Harvard Road to
National Container Group, LLC.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated
within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Revised
Code and Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to National Container Group, LLC. .

6
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold under this ordinance is more
fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 136-08-006
Parcel A
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Sublot No. 17 in Olive A Meech’s Subdivison of a part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No 457 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 24 of
Cuyahoga County Records in said
City, and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at a stone monument at
the Northeasterly corner of said Lot
No 17 said stone being in the Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to
G Meech and Wife to Cleveland and
Mahoning Railroad Company by deed
dated October 15, 1853 and record in
Cuyahoga County Deed records in
Book 67 at Page 221, and also being
fifty (50) feed Southwesterly by rectangular measurement from original
center line of Erie-Lachawanna Railroad Company (formerly The Cleveland and Mahoning Valley Railway
Company), and also being eight and
twenty-two hundredths (8.22) feet
Westerly from the line between original Lots Nos 457 and 458 as measured
along Southerly line of parcel conveyed as aforesaid
Thence South zero degrees fiftyfour minutes twenty seconds East (S
0 degree 54' 20" E) along Easterly
line of said lot No 17, eighty and seventy-one hundredths (80.71) feet to
the Southeasterly corner of said lot No
17,
Thence North sixty-eight degrees
forty seven minutes fifty seconds
West (N 68 degrees 47' 50"W.) along
Southerly line of said Lot No 17, two
hundred two and eighty-three hundredths (202.83) feet to an angle
point,
Thence North sixty-two degrees
thirty-three minutes twenty seconds
West (N. 62 degrees 03' 20"W.)still
along said Southerly line of Lot No 17,
one hundred thirty-six and twentyone hundredths (136.21) feet to an
angle point;
Thence North seventy-six degrees
thirty-three minutes twenty seconds
West (N. 76 degrees 33' 20" W) still
along said Southerly line of Lot No. 17,
one hundred thirty-six 136.00) feet to
an angle point,
Thence South sixty-eight degrees
forty-one minutes forty seconds West
(S 68 degrees 41' 40"W) still along
said Southerly line of Lot No 17, one
hundred twenty-one and ninety-four
hundredths (121.94) feet to an angle
point,
Thence
North
seventy-eight
degrees thirty-six minutes fifty seconds West (N 78 degrees 36' 50"W)
still along said Southerly line of Lot
No. 17, one hundred thirty-eight and
ten hundredths (138.10) feet to the
Southwesterly corner of said Lot No
17,
Thence North eight degrees three
minutes fifty seconds West (N
8degrees 03' 50" W) along Westerly
line of said Lot No 17, one hundred
thirty-two
and
ninety-nine
hundredths (132.99) feet to a point in the
Easterly end of Richmond Avenue,
which is the Northwesterly corner of
said Lot No 17 and also being the
Southerly line of land conveyed as
aforesaid,
Thence South seventy-four degrees
one minute twenty seconds East (S 74
degrees 01' 20" E) along Southerly
line of land conveyed as aforesaid,
seven hundred thirty-six and fifty-six
hundredths (736.56) feet to the point
or place of beginning

The City Record
And being all the land or premises
conveyed by Erie Land and Improvement Company to Cleveland Mahoning Valley Railroad Company and
recorded December 9, 1921 in Cuyahoga County Deed Records in Volume
2555, Page 329, and later transferred
to Erie Railroad Company by Deed
recorded in said deed records in Volume 5417, Page 391
Parcel B
Situated in Original Lot No 457 of
Original Newburg Township, City of
Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga, State
of Ohio and being more particularly
bounded and described as follows:
Commencing at the point on the
monumented center line of Harvard
Avenue which is the southeast corner
of Original Lot Number 457, said point
being the original lot corner, thence
North two degrees twenty-one minutes (2 degrees 21') East, along the
original East lot line of said Original
Lot Number 457, four hundred four
and
thirty-two
one-hundredths
(404.32) feet, to the point of beginning
for the parcel of land herein
described. Thence continuing North
two degrees twenty-one minutes (2
degrees 21') East, along said original
East lot line, forty and thirty-nine one
hundredths (40.39) feet to a point,
said point also being the northeast
corner of a parcel of land conveyed by
Peter H. Hitchcock to The Conotton
Valley Railway Company by Warranty Deed dated May 24, 1881, and
recorded November 11, 1881, in Vol
329, Page 389, Cuyahoga County Deed
Records, Thence North sixty-six
degrees
twenty-six
minutes
(66
degrees 26') West, two hundred two
and
eighty-three
one-hundredths
(202.83) feet to a point,
Thence North sixty-six degrees
twenty-six minutes (66 degrees 26')
West, two hundred two and eightythree one-hundredths (202.83) feet to
a point,
Thence North fifty-nine degrees
forty-one minutes thirty seconds (59
degrees 41' 30") West one hundred
thirty-six and twenty-one one-hundredths (136.21) feet to a point,
Thence North seventy-four degrees,
eleven minutes thirty seconds (74
degrees 11' 30") West, one hundred
thirty-six (136.00) feet to a point,
Thence South seventy-one degrees
three minutes thirty seconds (71
degrees 03' 30") West, one hundred
twenty-one and ninety-four one-hundredths (121.94) feet to a point,
Thence North seventy-six degrees fifteen minutes (76 degrees 15') West,
one hundred thirty-eight and ten onehundredths (138.10) feet to a point
Thence south five degrees fortytwo minutes (5 degrees 42") East,
twelve and thirty-six one hundredths
(12.36) feet to a point,
Thence
South
seventy-three
degrees no minutes (72 degrees 00')
East, seven hundred twelve and five
one-hundredths (712.05) feet to the
said point of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Being land conveyed to The Conotton
Valley Railway Company by deed
recorded November 11, 1881, in Volume 329, Page 389, of Cuyahoga County Deed Records.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,

16

January 11, 2012
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall not be less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
made by official deed prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain such provisions as may be necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest including such restrictive covenants and
reversionary interests as may be specified by the Board of Control, the
Director of Community Development
or the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 6-12.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to employ one or more professional consultants to evaluate, assess,
and remediate brownfield properties
throughout the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more firms
of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to evaluate, assess, and remediate
brownfield properties throughout the
City of Cleveland.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Economic Development from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Economic Development for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Economic
Development, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall not
exceed an aggregate amount of
$200,000 and shall be paid from funds
appropriated for this purpose in 2012
with the approval of the Director of
Finance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirma-

January 11, 2012
tive vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 8-12.
By
Council
Members
Keane,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 571.91, relating to operation of commercial ground transportation vehicles at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport; and to amend
Section 571.99 relating to penalties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 571.91 to read as follows:
Section 571.91 Permits Required for
Commercial Ground Transportation
Vehicles Operating at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; Fee
(a) No person shall operate a commercial ground transportation vehicle at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport without a permit issued by
the Director of Port Control and without paying a fee as established in
division (b) of this section. A separate permit is required for each vehicle.
(b) The fee for operation of all commercial ground transportation vehicles obtaining the permits shall be set
by the Board of Control on an annual
basis. The fee shall be assessed on a
per trip basis and tabulated via an
Automatic License Plate Recognition
System.
Section 2. That Section 571.99 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 957-72, passed June 26, 1972, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 571.99 Penalty
(a) Whoever violates any provision
of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be fined nor
more than fifty dollars ($50.00), or
imprisoned not more than thirty days,
or both.
(b) Whoever violates Sections
571.06 or 571.91 shall be fined not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
and imprisoned not more than six
months, or both.
Section 3. That existing Section
571.99 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 957-72, passed June 26,
1972, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Legislation, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 9-12.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into an agreement with the
Cleveland Browns concerning the
making of capital repairs to the
Cleveland Browns Stadium, including
accepting the donation of plans and
the advancement of funds from the
Browns to make the repairs; determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing capital repairs to the Stadium; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts
for the making of the improvement.
Whereas, the lease between the
City and the Cleveland Browns Stadium Company LLC (the “Cleveland
Browns”) provides for the making of
capital repairs to Cleveland Browns
Stadium by the City subject to procedures and limitations specified in the
lease and the principal source of
funds for the capital repairs is the
capital repair fund established and
funded by the City under the lease
(the “Capital Repair Fund”); and
beginning
in
2012
Whereas,
receipts from the collection of an
excise tax levied from August 1, 2005
through July 31, 2015 on sales in Cuyahoga County of liquor, wine, beer,
mixed beverages and cigarettes (the
“Excise Tax”) are expected to be
available to fund future deposits to
the Capital Repair Fund under a
Cooperative Agreement entered into
as of December 30, 1996 by the City,
Cuyahoga County, The ClevelandCuyahoga County Port Authority and
the National Football League (the
“Cooperative Agreement”); and
Whereas, the City and the Cleveland Browns have determined that: a)
it is necessary to make certain capital
repairs to Cleveland Browns Stadium
in 2012 for a total amount not to
exceed
$5,850,000
(the
”Capital
Repairs”); b) the Cleveland Browns
will donate to the City, without
charge, the plans and specifications
for making the Capital Repairs; c) the
Cleveland Browns will advance funds
to the City of up to $5,000,000 to make
the Capital Repairs; d) the City will
subsequently reimburse the Cleveland Browns the funds so advanced
from Excise Tax receipts when available to the City under the terms of the
Cooperative Agreement as a source of
funds to pay for capital repairs to
Cleveland Browns Stadium; and e)
the City will receive a credit against
future deposits to the Capital Repair
Fund otherwise required to be made
under the lease in calendar year 2013
and consecutive calendar years thereafter; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
an agreement with the Cleveland
Browns for the making of the Capital
Repairs to Cleveland Browns Stadium
(“Stadium”). The agreement will provide: for the making of the Capital
Repairs to the Stadium in calendar
year 2012 in a total amount not to
exceed $5,850,000; that the Cleveland
Browns will donate to the City, without charge, the plans and specifications for making the Capital Repairs;
that the Cleveland Browns will
advance funds to the City of up to
$5,000,000 to make the Capital
Repairs, to be placed into a subac-

17

7
count of the Capital Repair Fund or
other fund or account to be determined by the Director of Finance to
be used for the making of the Capital
Repairs, which funds are appropriated for the purpose of making the public improvement authorized by Section 2 of this ordinance; that the City
will subsequently reimburse the
Cleveland Browns the funds they so
advanced from Excise Tax receipts
when available to the City under the
terms of the Cooperative Agreement
as a source of funds to pay for capital
repairs to Cleveland Browns Stadium;
and that the City will receive a credit
against future deposits to the Capital
Repair Fund otherwise required to be
made under the lease in calendar year
2013 and consecutive calendar years
thereafter.
Section 2. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland,
this Council determines to make the
public improvement of constructing
the Capital Repairs to the Cleveland
Browns Stadium, including, but not
limited to, repair and replacement of
pedestrian ramp walkways, waterproofing and sealing surfaces over
occupied spaces, seat refurbishment
and/or replacement, surface coating,
traffic coating of walkways and
plaza walkway repairs, for the
Department of Public Works, by contract duly let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding
for a gross price for the improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
contract for the making of the public
improvement with the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding
for a gross price for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of the improvement may be treated as a separate improvement, and
each, or any combination, of the
trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross
price. On request of the director, the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items constituting units of the improvement.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 5. That the cost of the
improvement shall be paid from funds
budgeted in 2012 and deposited into
the Capital Repair Fund under the
lease and from the fund or funds to
which
are
credited
the
money
advanced to the City by the Cleveland
Browns under the agreement authorized by Section 1 of this ordinance.
The cost of the reimbursement to the
Cleveland Browns shall be paid from
Excise Tax receipts when available
to the City under the terms of the
Cooperative Agreement as a source of
funds to pay for capital repairs to
Cleveland Browns Stadium as determined and approved by the Director
of Finance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Properties, and Recreation,
City Planning, Finance.

8
Ord. No. 10-12.
By Council Members K. Johnson
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into a concession agreement for
the operation of the Highland Park
Golf Course, food and beverage concessions, pro shop, merchandise and
sales, marketing, and all other golf
course and hospitality-related management services for a period of ten
years, with two five-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Public Works.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Director of Public
Works is authorized to enter into a
concession agreement on the basis of
competitive proposals, for the operation of the Highland Park Golf
Course, including food and beverage
concessions, pro shop, merchandise
and sales, marketing, and all other
golf course and hospitality-related
management services at Highland
Park Golf Course for a period of ten
years, with two five-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Public works, provided that the green
fees charged shall not exceed the
rates specified in divisions (a), (b),
and (d) of Section 131.31 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. The selection of the Concessionaire shall be made by the Board of
Control on the nomination of the
Director of Public Works.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Works has authority to transfer
the liquor permit for Highland Park
Golf Course to the concessionaire
under the agreement authorized
above, provided it requires the Concessionaire to transfer the liquor permit back to the City upon termination
of the Concession Agreement authorized above.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Properties, and Recreation,
City Planning, Finance
Ord. No. 12-12.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Zone.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 603.091 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 712-11,
passed June 6, 2011, relating to unlawful restraint of animals.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 603.091 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 as amended by Ordinance
No. 712-11, passed June 6, 2011, is
amended as follows:

The City Record
603.091 Neglect of Animals
(a) No owner or keeper of a dog,
cat, or other domestic animal shall
cause any condition that may lead to
permanent injury, death, or harm to
such animal, including confining an
animal in a motor vehicle under any
conditions that may endanger the
well being of the domestic animal.
(b) No person shall keep any animal in a place that is unsanitary,
including any place where there is an
accumulation of feces or other waste,
or foul odor, or insect or rodent infestation.
(c) No person who owns or keeps an
animal shall fail to provide the animal all of the following needs:
(1) Clean, potable drinking water
at all times, and suitable food, of sufficient quality and quantity as to
ensure normal growth and the maintenance of normal body weight;
(2) Food and water receptacles that
are kept clean and disinfected, and
located so as to avoid contamination
by feces or other wastes;
(3) Regular exercise sufficient to
maintain the animal’s good health;
(4) Necessary veterinary care;
(5) Shelter from the elements.
(d) No person who shelters an animal from the elements by means of an
animal shelter, a cage, or a pen shall
fail to conform it to the following
requirements:
(1) The shelter, cage or pen shall be
appropriate to the animal’s size,
weight, and other characteristics,
with sufficient space to allow the animal to turn about freely and lie in a
normal position;
(2) The shelter, case or pen shall
provide sufficient shade to allow the
animal to escape the direct rays of the
sun at all times;
(3) The shelter, cage or pen shall be
regularly cleaned and sanitized.
(e) No person who restrains an animal on a tether shall fail to meet the
following requirements:
(1) Restraint by tether shall be for
a reasonable period, not to exceed
three hours in a 24-hour period;
Tethering is prohibited:
(2) Between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m.;
(3) If a heat advisory has been
issued by a local or state authority or
jurisdiction;
(4) If a tornado warning has been
issued for the jurisdiction by the
National Weather Service;
(5) If the tether is less than 20 feet,
provided the tether does not allow the
animal to touch the fence or cross the
property line or cross onto a public
easement;
(6) If the tether is attached by
means of a pinch-type, prong-type, or
choke-type collar or if the collar is
unsafe or is not properly fitted;
(7) If the tether inhibits the animal’s free movement or causes injury
or entanglement;
(8) If the animal does not have
access to shade, dry shelter, and a tipproof water supply.
(f) As used in this section, “tether”
means a rope, chain or similar
restraint for holding an animal in
place, allowing a short radius in
which it can move about.
(g) Whoever violates this section is
guilty of neglect of animals, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
Section 2. That Section 603.091 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 712-11, passed June 6, 2011 is
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the mem-

18

January 11, 2012
bers elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 7-12.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of Henley Avenue S.W.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Henley Avenue S.W., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
1.
That
this
Council
Section
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
A portion of Henley Avenue S.W.
Being all that portion of Henley
Avenue S.W. (12.00 feet wide) extending from the westerly right of way
line of West 92nd Street (50.00 feet
wide) westerly to the easterly right of
way line of West 94th Street (50.00
feet wide).
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 13-12.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1309-11,
passed December 5, 2011, relating to a
change to the Use, Area and Height
Districts of land located on the south
side of Miles Avenue between E. 116th
Street and E. 128th Street. (Map
Change No. 2379, Sheet Number 10).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1309-11, passed December 5,
2011, is amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and
Height Districts of lands bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of E.
116th Street at its intersection with
the centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation
of the centerline of E. 119th Street;
Thence
northerly
along
said

January 11, 2012
southerly prolongation and said centerline of E. 119th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the centerline of Minor
Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Minor Avenue and along its
easterly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly line of Sublot
Number 62 in the J.M. Hoyt and Son
Subdivision shown on the recorded
plat in Volume 11, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation
of the centerline of E. 128th Street;
southerly
along
said
Thence
northerly prolongation of said centerline of E. 128th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of
the northerly line of Sublot Number 68
in the Miles-Corlett No. 2 Subdivision
shown on the recorded plat in Volume
46, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said northerly
line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the
northerly line of Sublot Number 61 in
the Kennedy & Christy Subdivision
shown on the recorded plat in Volume
44, Page 27 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records:
westerly
along
said
Thence
northerly line and along its westerly
prolongation through the intersection
of E. 126th Street to its intersection
with the easterly line of Sublot Number 61 in the Miles-Corlett Subdivision
shown on the recorded plat in Volume
44, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the
northerly line thereof;
Thence
westerly
along
said
northerly line and continuing along
its westerly prolongation through the
centerline of E. 124th Street to its
intersection with the centerline of
Martin Luther King Junior Drive
(formerly E. 122nd Street);
Thence northerly along said centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Drive
to its intersection with the easterly
prolongation of the centerline of
Robertson Avenue;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said centerline to
its intersection with the centerline of
East 119th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of E. 116th
Street and the principal place of
beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is
changed to a Two Family Residential
District, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’
Height District.
Section 2. That existing Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 1309-11, passed December 5, 2011, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

The City Record
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 14-12.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with the Burten, Bell,
Carr Development, Inc., for the Holiday Food Gift Program through the
use of Ward 7 Neighborhood Capital
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement effective November 1, 201
with the Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc., for the Holiday Food Gift
Card Program for the public purpose
of providing food gift cards to low-tomoderate income residents residing
in the city of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 7 Neighborhood Capital
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $21,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 15-12.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning
Commission to enter into an agreement with the Mt. Pleasant NOW
Development Corporation for the
Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative for the proposed Mt.
Pleasant Arts and Culture Entertainment District through the use of Ward
1 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of the City Planning
Commission be authorized to enter
into an agreement with the Mt. Pleasant NOW Development Corporation
for the Transportation for Livable
Communities Initiative for the proposed Mt. Pleasant Arts and Culture
Entertainment District for the public
purpose of improving traffic patterns
that will enhance linkages for pedestrians, vehicles, bicycles and public
transportation from Kinsman Road
south to Union Avenue, and E. 142nd

19

9
Street west to E. 138th Street to promote the redevelopment in this neighborhood corridor that is in the city of
Cleveland through the use of Ward 1
Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $18,750 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 11-12.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Kelley, Sweeney, Polensek,
Cleveland,
Brancatelli,
Keane,
Mitchell, Westbrook and Brady.
An emergency resolution urging
Ohio United States Senators and Ohio
United States Representatives to
introduce and support legislation
which enacts the provisions of the
U.S. Conference of Mayors’ Resolution
No. 43 regarding the United States
Environmental Protection Agency’s
enforcement policies of the Clean
Water Act.
Whereas, due to the growing need
to clean up America’s waterways, The
Clean Water Act (“CWA”) was enacted in 1972 as the principal law governing pollution of surface waters in
the United States; and
Whereas, this legislation, among
other things, outlined ambitious
goals to improve water quality; and
Whereas, 40 years later, our cities
and our nation have made great
progress in cleaning up our waterways, and Ohio members of the U.S.
Conference of Mayors (“Conference of
Mayors”) acknowledge that more
needs to be done; and
Whereas, the United States Environmental
Protection
Agency
(“USEPA”) is the regulatory agency
of the CWA and works to assure compliance with the CWA; and
Whereas, however, USEPA’s current enforcement policies have resulted in various stages of vigorous
enforcement actions that result in
consent decrees creating billions of
dollars in long-term liabilities to our
cities; and
Whereas, these liabilities now
translate into customer utility rates
that are burdensome for poor households, and impose greater costs on our
middle class families who have
already
experienced
real
wage
decline over the past decade; and
Whereas, additionally, the USEPA
continues to, or plans to, issue other
water and wastewater/stormwater
mandates that will force Ohio cities
into yet more long-term borrowing
that is unaffordable in light of substantially reduced local government
revenue shortfalls and reductions in
state and federal financial assistance; and

10
Whereas, at its June 2011 meeting,
the Conference of Mayors adopted
Resolution 43 to highlight these problems and also to offer a set of very
practical solutions that still meets the
goals and objectives of the CWA, but
changes the policies guiding the
USEPA’s enforcement actions (“Resolution 43”); and
Whereas, over 20 Ohio cities, sewer
districts, and professional associations, which represent millions of
Ohio residents, have already adopted
resolutions endorsing Resolution 43
and have urged their Congressional
legislature to introduce and support
legislation to enact the provisions of
Resolution 43; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, property, health, and
safety in that this Council supports
Resolution 43 and strongly urges our
Ohio United States Senators and Ohio
United States Representatives to
introduce and support legislation
which enacts the provisions of Resolution No. 43 to identify alternatives
to the current enforcement policies of
the USEPA while still meeting the
goals and objectives of the CWA;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Ohio United States Senators and
Ohio United States Representatives to
introduce and support legislation
which enacts the provisions of the
Conference of Mayors’ Resolution 43
regarding the USEPA’s enforcement
policies of the CWA. A copy of Resolution 43 has been placed in File No.
11-12-A.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution and file to Ohio United
States Senators Sherrod Brown and
Rob Portman and to all Ohio United
States Representatives.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 16-12.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution supporting the application from Detroit
Shoreway Community Development
Organization
to
the
Northcoast
Brownfield Coalition’s Community
Assessment Initiative for 1265 West
65th Street in Ward 15.
Whereas, the Northcoast Brownfield Coalition makes funds available
in Cuyahoga County for environmental assessment and remediation
through its Community Assessment
Initiative program; and
Whereas, Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization is
submitting a Community Assessment
Initiative Application to the Northcoast Brownfield Coalition for Phase
II of the “Robin Industries” building
located at 1265 West 65th Street; and
Whereas, 1265 West 65th Street is
an approximately 1.12 acre property
identified as Permanent Parcel Number 002-10-001 in Ward 15 in the City of
Cleveland; and

The City Record
Whereas, a private developer will
purchase the property to redevelop it
into a mixed-use studio, office and
residential building; and
Whereas, Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
has identified the property as a priority site for the neighborhood and is
fully supportive of the developer’s
redevelopment plan; and
Whereas, the City is committed to
working with Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization to
pursue the remediation and redevelopment of the property; and
Whereas, the Northcoast Brownfield Coalition Community Assessment Initiative grant is vital to making the 1265 West 65th Street redevelopment project economically feasible;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
supports the application from Detroit
Shoreway Community Development
to
the
Northcoast
Organization
Brownfield Coalition’s Community
Assessment Initiative for 1265 West
65th Street in Ward 15.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 17-12.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 1313 West 6th Street and
repealing Resolution No. 1529-11,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of liquor license of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to MGFG, LLC,
DBA Enigma, 1313 West 6th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent No.
5378773, adopted by the Council on
October 24, 2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to MGFG, LLC,
DBA Enigma, 1313 West 6th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent No.
5378773 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 152911, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the

20

January 11, 2012
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 18-12.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 18506 St.
Clair Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 986-11, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 18506 St.
Clair Avenue, by Resolution No. 986-11
adopted by the Council on July 20,
2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal
based upon a cooperation agreement
between Councilmember Michael D.
Polensek and Applicant Ranjit Singh,
President of D B Ohio Enterprise, Inc.;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to D B Ohio Enterprise, Inc., DBA Convenient Food
Mart, 18506 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
18795700005 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 986-11,
containing such objection, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 19-12.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal and
issuance of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit
at 15222 Waterloo Road and repealing
Resolution Nos. 1168-11 and 263-11,
objecting to said renewal and permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 15222
Waterloo Road by Resolution No.
1168-11 adopted by the Council on
August 17, 2011 and Resolution No.
263-11 adopted by the Council on February 28, 2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objections to the above
renewal and permit based upon a
cooperation
agreement
by
and

January 11, 2012
between Councilmember Michael D.
Polensek and said applicant in cooperation agreement; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1 and
C2 Liquor Permit to Waterloo Gas &
Go, 15222 Waterloo Road, Cleveland,
Ohio
44110,
Permanent
Number
9427085 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution Nos. 116811 and 263-11, containing such objections, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal and
issuance of permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 20-12.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D5 Liquor Permit at 6422 Storer
Avenue, 1st floor and basement, and
repealing Resolution No. 997-11,
objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
D5 Liquor Permit at 6422 Storer
Avenue, 1st floor and basement, by
Resolution No. 997-11 adopted by the
Council on July 20, 2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
Liquor Permit to Ms. Debbie, LLC,
DBA Victory Lap Café, 6422 Storer
Avenue, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 6052915 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
997-11, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.

The City Record
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 1715-11.
By Council Members Miller
and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of recycled or
virgin asphalt concrete, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Works and the various divisions
of the Department of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Service; Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
MOTION
By Council Member Keane, seconded by Council Member Johnson
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Members Joe
Cimperman and Brian J. Cummins
be and is hereby authorized.

11
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 8, 2007, and Board of Control
Resolution
No.
531-11,
adopted
November 9, 2011, approved Rahim
Inc. dba RNR Consulting as the firm
to be employed by contract to provide professional consulting services
necessary to provide professional
customer service systems support,
including general IT support, Cisco
VoIP and call center support, business intelligence support and development, IT infrastructure support
and Microsoft system support, in the
aggregate amount of $975,000.00, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, by its December 19, 2011
letter, Rahim Inc. dba RNR Consulting requested the City’s consent
to add a sub-consultant; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
sub-consultant by Rahim Inc. dba
RNR Consulting for the above-menprofessional
services
is
tioned
approved:
Sub-consultant

Work
Percentage

MOTION
TieBridge, Inc.
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:45 p.m. to meet on Monday, January 23, 2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

January 4, 2012
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, January 4,
2012 at 10:35 a.m. with Interim Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Interim
Director
Langhenry, Directors Withers, R.
Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask, Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Others:
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Interim Director, Office of Equal
Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Division of Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 1-12.
By Director Withers.
Whereas, under authority of Ordinance No. 1036-07, passed by the

21

$150,000.00
15.385%

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 2-12.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of HD Supply Waterworks,
LTD for an estimated quantity of
stop cock boxes, items 1-4, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two
years starting upon the later of the
execution of a contract or the day
following expiration of the currently effective contract for the goods
or services, received on November
17, 2011 under the authority of Section 129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $100,160.00
(0%, Net 30 Days), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which contract shall provide for an initial order, the cost of
which shall be certified to the contract in an amount not less than
$5,008.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.

The City Record

12
Resolution No. 3-12.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Industrial Paper Shredders, Inc. for one Paper Shredder
System, all items, for the Division of
Collection
and
Disposal,
Waste
Department
of
Public
Works,
received on November 11, 2011, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 21911, passed April 18, 2011, which on
the basis of the order quantity
would
amount
to
$92,580.00,
is
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Works, is
requested to enter into contract for
such items.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Industrial Paper Shredders, Inc. is
approved:
Cert Status
Amount

Subcontractor
CSB%
Ohio Baler Company
0.00%

Non-certified
$21,768.00

EnduraVevo
0.00%

Non-certified
$8,517.00

0.00%

Total Participation
$0.00

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 4-12.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bids received on November 30,
2011 for the West Side Market Phase
II Improvements for the Department
of Public Works, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 489-07,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on June 4, 2007, as amended by Ordinance No. 1874-07, passed
January 7, 2008, are rejected.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 5-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 138-15-118 located at 4284 East
126th Street in Ward 2; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and

Whereas, Christian Bailey has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 2 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Christian Bailey
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 138-15-118 located
at 4284 East 126th Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$400.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 6-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 111-05-149 located at 507 East
115th Street in Ward 9; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Lawrence and Norma
Wagner,
abutting/adjacent
landowner, has proposed to the City
to purchase and develop the parcel
for Yard Expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 9 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and

22

January 11, 2012
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Lawrence and
Norma Wagner for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 111-05-149 located at 507 East
115th Street, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 7-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No.
128-12-033
located
at
9529
Parkview Avenue in Ward 4; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas,
Donald
and
Delores
Green has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
Yard Expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 4 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of
Cleveland,
with
Donald
and
Delores Green for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No.
128-12-033
located
at
9529
Parkview Avenue, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$400.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,

January 11, 2012
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 8-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 116-33-048 located at 18717 Ironwood Avenue in Ward 11; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Keith L. Smith has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for Yard Expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 11 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Keith L. Smith
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 116-33-048 located
at 18717 Ironwood Avenue, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$500.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 9-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 125-34-079 located at 3424 East
73rd Street in Ward 5; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when

The City Record
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Nicole E. Pappas has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 5 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Nicole E. Pappas
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 125-34-079 located
at 3424 East 73rd Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

23

13
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JANUARY 23, 2012
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 11-237: 1192 East 40th
Street (Ward 3)
The 1192 Group Partnership LLC,
owner, appeals for a change of use
from a factory, warehouse, to a private club, assembly hall, in an existing building located on a 136.25' x
329.67' lot in a B3 General Industry
District; subject to the provisions
under Section 349.04(e) in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances, the proposed use requires accessory offstreet parking that is a total parking area equal to three times the
gross floor area.
Calendar No. 11-238: 2161 West 101st
Street (Ward 16)
Evelyn Jackson, owner, appeals to
enclose an existing 9' x 27' wooden, open front porch, requesting an
enclosed porch that projects 9 feet,
contrary to the limitation of 4 feet
that
is
allowed
under
Section
357.13(b)(4) in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 11-239: 789 East 99th
Street (Ward 8)
James and Betty Jefferson, owners, and BeNita Martinez, tenant,
appeal to establish use as a Type A
day care within the first floor of an
existing two family residence on a
40' x 91.95' lot in a B1 Two-Family
District; subject to the limitations of
Section 337.03, and by reference to
Section 337.02(f)(3)(C), the proposed
use must be not less than 30 feet
from any adjoining premises in a
residence district and requires public notice, hearing and approval by
the Board of Zoning Appeals to
determine if adequate yard spaces
and other safeguards to preserve the
character of the neighborhood are
provided, and if in the judgment of
the Board, such buildings and uses
are
appropriately
located
and
designed and will meet a community need without adversely affecting
the neighborhood.
Calendar No. 11-240: 3255 West 58th
Street (Ward 15)
Robert Cisar, owner, appeals to
use a building as a garage for storage as the sole, primary use of a 38'
x 122.58' parcel located in a B1 TwoFamily District; subject to the limitations under Section 337.03 the proposed use of the premises is not permitted and first permitted as a primary use in a Semi-Industry District, and permitted only as an
accessory use in a residence district
in accordance with the provisions
under Sections 337.23(a)(7) in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 2012
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
9, 2012, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.

The City Record

14
The
following
APPROVED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 11-224: 8101 Hough
Avenue
M.A.S.H. Ministries appealed for
an area variance only to establish
use as a church in a C2 Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 11-235: 16419 St. Clair
Avenue
Recycle Midwest, Inc. appealed to
establish use as a recycling plant in
a C2 Semi-Industry District; subject
to condition.
Calendar No. 11-236: 12617 Edmonton
Road
Regina
Vaughn
appealed
to
install a wheelchair lift within the
front yard setback in a B1 TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 11-176: 3860 West 140th
Street
Yuleter Deleon appealed to establish use as a motor vehicle minor
repair garage on a corner property
in a C1 Local Retail Business District; subject to conditions.
following
The
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 11-234: 12728 Bellaire
Road
ABC Taxi Company, LLC appealed
to establish use for taxicab services
on consolidated lots in C1 Local
Retail Business and B1 Two-Family
Districts.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
None.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on January 3, 2012 was adopted and approved on January 9, 2012.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 11-230: 1867-73 West
25th Street
P&M Ohio City, LLC appealed to
change use from a nonconforming
night club to an ice cream production facility with a dining area in a
C4 Local Retail Business District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Tow Truck Driver’s License
Calendar No. 11-231: Appeal of Carlan V. Frazier
Carlan V. Frazier appealed from
the decision of the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses to not
issue a Tow Truck Driver’s License.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
January 4, 2012
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,

Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-168-11.
RE: Appeal of Chris Jurcisin,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Family
Residence
Two
&
Two
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
2482 East 124th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated April
18, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-168-11 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.

January 11, 2012
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
Story
Frame
Property
One/half
located on the premises known as
847 East 129th Street from a CONORDER
—
MAIN
DEMNATION
STRUCTURE, dated March 29, 2011
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request
for
eleven
(11)
appeal
months in which to abate the violations, the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.

*    *    *
*    *    *
Docket A-169-11.
RE: Appeal of Edward Byszewski,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 4241 East 71st
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLA—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
TION
MAINTENANCE, dated April 28, 2011
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal request for more time and to
the
property
to
the
REMAND
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-170-11.
RE: Appeal of Delon Burrell,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
One
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property,
located on the premises known as
3360 East 149th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated
May 4, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to complete abatement of all violations, the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-173-11.
RE: Appeal of Evergreen Castle,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units

24

Docket A-174-11.
RE: Appeal of Dan Andreasik,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
One
&
Story
Frame
Property
One/half
located on the premises known as
10922 Oliver Road from a NOTICE
VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
OF
MAINTENANCE, dated April 14, 2011
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant one (1) year in which to
complete abatement of the violations, the docket is to be kept open
for re-application if the time must
be extended. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-175-11.
RE: Appeal of Therese A. Fuller,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
1374
West
87th
Street
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated May
11, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant six (6) weeks in which to
remove the debris from the garage
and six (6) months in which to complete abatement of all violations on
the
property.
The
property
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.

January 11, 2012
Docket A-176-11.
RE: Appeal of Yakup Cukurcayir/Herman D. Thomas, Owners of
the B Business – Offices, Laboratories, Adult School One Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 11885 Bellaire Road from
a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — UNAUTHORIZED/ILLEGAL USE, dated
November 17, 2010 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, that based on
the testimony presented and the
photographs, a motion is in order at
this time to DENY the appeal
request and to REMAND the property to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-177-11.
RE: Appeal of John Carpenter,
Owner of the Three Dwelling Units
Three-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half Story Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry Veneer Property located on the premises known as 7416
Cornelia Avenue from a CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated May 14, 2010 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal request for more time and to
REMAND
the
property
to
the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-178-11.
RE: Appeal of Michael M. Stewart,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
13817 Svec Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated January 24,
2011 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-178-11 have been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for January 18, 2012.
*    *    *
Docket A-190-11.
RE: Appeal of Hatim
Nassir,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
2620 East 115th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated March 22, 2010

The City Record
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-190-11 have been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for January 18, 2012.
*    *    *
Docket A-251-11.
RE: Appeal of The Glidden House,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 1901 Ford
Drive
from
an
ADJUDICATION
ORDER, dated December 23, 2011 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Adjudication Order was properly
issued, the plans do not indicate
compliance with the current code;
and the Appellant is directed to submit adequate plans to the Department of Building and Housing indicating compliance and/or areas of
appeal. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Bradley. Nays: Mr. Saab Absent: Mr.
Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-276-11.
RE: Appeal of Ocie Lee Smith,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Residence
Two
&
Two-Family
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
3517 East 133rd Street from a
VACATE ORDER, and NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated
August 28, 2011 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
request for additional time, noting
the danger presented by the condition of the property at this time; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing
for
supervision
and
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.

15
to immediately obtain permits and a
Certificate Of Occupancy and abate
all
violations,
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
Docket A-387-11.
RE: Appeal of Ohio Parking Systems of Cleveland, Owner of the
Property located on the premises
known as 1277 Hamilton Avenue
from an ADJUDICATION ORDER,
dated December 13, 2011 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to permit the fabric to be used in the manner presented with the provision that the
structure be re-analyzed for wind
resistance, structural ability based
on the density and area of the material. Motion so in order. Motioned by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher for Approval and Adoption of the Resolutions as presented
by the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-137-11
A-149-11
A-157-11
A-160-11
A-161-11
A-163-11
nell
A-164-11
A-193-11

—
—
—
—
—
—

RRST
Alma Boyd
John T. Marek
Tia M. Edmonson
Mr. Donald G. Ruff
Tana & Dennis O’Don-

— Mary Hubbard
— Martin J McBride

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:

*    *    *
Docket A-287-11.
RE: Appeal of Fiduciary Leaders
Inc., Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single-Family Residence One
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 19306 Nottingham Road from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated February 4, 2011 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal and to require the Appellant

25

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
December 7, 2011
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Maschke.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

The City Record

16
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, January 18, 2012
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
January 18, 2012, at 1:00 p.m., to consider the following ordinance now
pending in the Council:
Ordinance No. 1602-11
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the Use
and Area Districts of lands located
on the south side of Hancock
Avenue east of West 28th Street to
Semi-Industry Use District and a ‘C’
Area District from Two Family Residential and a ‘B’ Area District (Map
Change No. 2382, Sheet Number 1).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Chair
Committee on City Planning
_____
January 4, 2012 and January 11, 2012

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.

Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 2012
File No. 1-12 — Bessemer Avenue
Extension,
Phase
IIB
East
88th/Crane/East 91st Reconstruction, for the Division of Engineering
and
Construction,
Mayor’s
Office of Capital Projects, as authorized by Ordinance No. 721-10,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 7, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR THESE PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT
OF
SEVENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS ($75.00) THE ONLY
FORM OF PAYMENTS ACCEPTARE
CASHIER
CHECKS
ED
AND OR MONEY ORDERS MADE
OUT TO THE CITY OF CLEVELAND (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
THE
PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
AT 1:30 P.M. THE CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, ROOM 518, 601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 3-12 — City of Cleveland
Construction
Contract
for
the
City Wards for Year 2012 Concrete Requirements Contract, for
the Division of Engineering and
Construction, Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1603-11, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 5, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR THESE PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT
OF
SEVENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS ($75.00) THE ONLY
FORM OF PAYMENTS ACCEPTED
ARE
CASHIER
CHECKS
AND OR MONEY ORDERS MADE
OUT TO THE CITY OF CLEVELAND (NO COMPANY CHECKS,

26

January 11, 2012
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
THE
PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 2012
AT 9:30 A.M. THE CLEVELAND
CITY HALL, ROOM 518, 601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
January 4, 2012 and January 11, 2012
FRIDAY, JANUARY 27, 2012
File No. 2-12 — Processing of Recyclable Materials, for the Division
of Waste Collection and Disposal,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Section 181.18 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, JANUARY 17, 2012 AT
11:30 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM 128,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
January 4, 2012 and January 11, 2012

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, January 9, 2012
2:00 p.m.
Finance
Committee:
Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,
Authorized
Absence:
Westbrook.
Pruitt.
Tuesday, January 10, 2012
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller, Pruitt,
Westbrook,
Zone.
Authorized
Absence: Cimperman.
Wednesday, January 11, 2012
10:00 a.m.
TOUR/Public Utilities Committee:
Present: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Polensek,
Westbrook.
Authorized
Absence:
Dow, Miller, Pruitt.

January 11, 2012

The City Record

17

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
City Planning Commission — Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corporation — Transportation For
Livable Communities Initiative (Ward 01 NCF) (O 15-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Holiday Food Gift Card Program — Gift Cards — Community Development Department — Burten,
Bell, Carr Development, Inc., (Ward 07 NCF) (O 14-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Port Control — Contract “PI2010*071 — Independence Excavating — Runway 10-28 Safety Area —
Phase 2 Project (Notification Of Subsidiary Agreement) (F 23-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Appreciation
Mitchell, Jr., Julius — (R 66-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Bellaire Road, 11885, (Ward 17) — Yakup Cukurcayir / Herman D. Thomas, owners — appeal
resolved on 1/4/12 (Doc. A-176-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Avenue, 8414, (Ward 12) — John T. Marek, owner — appeal adopted on 1/4/12
(Doc. A-157-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cornelia Avenue, 7416, (Ward 7) — John Carpenter, owner — appeal resolved on 1/4/12
(Doc. A-177-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 115th Street, 2620, (Ward 6) — Hatim Nassir, owner — appeal postponed to 1/18/12 on
1/4/12 (Doc. A-190-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 120th Street, 1387, (Ward 9) — Donald G. Ruff, owner — appeal adopted on 1/4/12
(Doc. A-161-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 124th Street, 2482, (Ward 6) — Chris Jurcisin, owner — appeal withdrawn on 1/4/12
(Doc. A-168-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 129th Street, 847, (Ward 10) — Evergreen Castle, owner — appeal resolved on 1/4/12
(Doc. A-173-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 133rd Street, 3517, (Ward 4) — Ocie Lee Smith, owner — appeal resolved on
1/4/12 (Doc. A-276-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 149th Street, 3360, (Ward 1) — Delon Burrell, owner — appeal resolved on 1/4/12
(Doc. A-170-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st Street, 4241, (Ward 12) — Edward Byszewski, owner — appeal resolved on 1/4/12
(Doc. A-169-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ford Drive, 1901, (Ward 9) — The Glidden House, owner — appeal resolved on 1/4/12
(Doc. A-251-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamilton Avenue, 1277, (Ward 3) — Ohio Parking Systems of Cleveland, owner — appeal
resolved on 1/4/12 (Doc. A-387-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Imperial Avenue, 12302, (Ward 4) — Tia M. Edmonson, owner — appeal adopted on 1/4/12
(Doc. A-160-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nottingham Road, 19306, (Ward 11) — Fiduciary Leaders, Inc., owner — appeal resolved on
1/4/12 (Doc. A-287-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oliver Road, 10922, (Ward 17) — Dan Andreasik, owner — appeal resolved on
1/4/12 (Doc. A-174-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rockwell Avenue, 2232, (Ward 3) — RRST, owner — appeal adopted on 1/4/12 (Doc. A-137-11) . . .
Svec Avenue, 13817, (Ward 4) — Michael M. Stewart, owner — appeal postponed to 1/18/12
on 1/4/12 (Doc. A-178-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Avenue, 10014, (Ward 5) — Alma Boyd, owner — appeal adopted on 1/4/12 (Doc. A-149-11) .
West 19th Street, 2086, (Ward 3) — Martin J. McBride, owner — appeal adopted on 1/4/12
(Doc. A-193-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 58th Street, 1889, (Ward 15) — Mary Hubbard, owner — appeal adopted on 1/4/12
(Doc. A-164-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 67th Street, 3567, (Ward 15) — Tana and Dennis O’Donnell, owner — appeal adopted on
1/4/12 (Doc. A-163-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 87th Street, 1374, (Ward 16) — Therese A. Fuller, owner — appeal resolved on 1/4/12
(Doc. A-175-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 115th Street, 507 (Ward 9) — PPN 111-05-149 — Lawrence and Norma Wagner (BOC Res. 6-12)
East 126th Street, 4284 (Ward 2) — PPN 138-15-118 — Christian Bailey (BOC Res. 5-12) . . . . . . . . . . .
East 73rd Street, 3424 (Ward 5) — PPN 125-34-079 — Nicole E. Pappas (BOC Res. 9-12) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ironwood Avenue, 18717 (Ward 11) — PPN 116-33-048 — Keith L. Smith (BOC Res. 8-12) . . . . . . . . . .
Parkview Avenue, 9529 (Ward 4) — PPN 128-12-033 — Donald and Delores Green (BOC Res. 7-12). .

27

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

22
22
23
23
22

The City Record

18

January 11, 2012

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 115th Street, 507 (Ward 9) — PPN 111-05-149 — Lawrence and Norma Wagner (BOC Res. 6-12)
East 126th Street, 4284 (Ward 2) — PPN 138-15-118 — Christian Bailey (BOC Res. 5-12) . . . . . . . . . . .
East 73rd Street, 3424 (Ward 5) — PPN 125-34-079 — Nicole E. Pappas (BOC Res. 9-12) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ironwood Avenue, 18717 (Ward 11) — PPN 116-33-048 — Keith L. Smith (BOC Res. 8-12) . . . . . . . . . .
Parkview Avenue, 9529 (Ward 4) — PPN 128-12-033 — Donald and Delores Green (BOC Res. 7-12). .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

22
22
23
23
22

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Consulting services for customer service systems support, IT general and infrastructure
support, Cisco VoIP — approve sub-consultant — BOC Res. 531-11 — Division of Water,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 1-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Consulting services for customer service systems support, IT general and infrastructure
support, Cisco VoIP — approve sub-consultant — BOC Res. 531-11 — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 1-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Stop cock boxes — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd. — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 2-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Paper shredder system — per Ord. 219-11 to Industrial Paper
of Waste Collection and Disposal (BOC Res. 3-12) . . . . .
West Side Market improvements, Phase II — per Ord. 489-07,
(BOC Res. 4-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Shredders, Inc. — Division
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
1874-07 — all bids rejected
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Stop cock boxes — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd. — Division of Water,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 2-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Paper shredder system — per Ord. 219-11 to Industrial Paper Shredders, Inc. — Division
of Waste Collection and Disposal, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 3-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

Board of Control — Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Paper shredder system — per Ord. 219-11 to Industrial Paper Shredders, Inc. — Dept. of
Public Works (BOC Res. 3-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

Board of Control — Water Division
Consulting services for customer service systems support, IT general and infrastructure
support, Cisco VoIP — approve sub-consultant — BOC Res. 531-11 — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 1-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Stop cock boxes — per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd. — Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 2-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Board of Control — West Side Market
Improvements, Phase II — per Ord. 489-07, 1874-07 — all bids rejected — Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 4-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Bellaire Road, 12728, (Ward 17) — ABC Taxi Company, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 1/9/12
(Cal. 11-234) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Edmonton Road, 12617, (Ward 10) — Regina Vaughn, owners — appeal heard on
1/9/12 (Cal. 11-236). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Frazier, Carlan V. (Tow Truck Drivers License) — appeal denied and adopted on 1/9/12
(Cal. 11-231) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hough Avenue, 8101, (Ward 7) — M.A.S.H. Ministries, owner — appeal heard on 1/9/12
(Cal. 11-224) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 16419, (Ward 11) — Calaco, LLC and Recycle Midwest, Inc., owners —
appeal heard on 1/9/12 (Cal. 11-235) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 140th Street, 3860, (Ward 18) — Yuleter Deleon, owner — appeal heard on 1/9/12
(Cal. 11-176) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1867-73, (Ward 3) — P&M Ohio City, LLC, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 1/9/12 (Cal. 11-230) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

28

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

The City Record

January 11, 2012

19

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 40th Street, 1192, (Ward 3) — The 1192 Group Partnership, LLC, owner — appeal to be
heard on 1/23/12 (Cal. 11-237) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 99th Street, 789, (Ward 8) — James and Betty Jefferson, owners and BeNita Martinez,
tenant — appeal to be heard on 1/23/12 (Cal. 11-239) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 101st Street, 2161, (Ward 16) — Evelyn Jackson, owner — appeal to be heard on
1/23/12 (Cal. 11-238). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 58th Street, 3255, (Ward 15) — Robert Cisar, owner — appeal to be heard on 1/23/12
(Cal. 11-240) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

Capital Projects
East 96th Street — encroach into right-of-way — Elevator & UPS Room — Cleveland Clinic
Foundation (Ward 06) (O 2-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

City of Cleveland Bids
Bessemer Avenue Extension, Phase IIB (East 88th St./Crane/East 91st St. reconstruction) —
Office of Capital Projects — Division of Engineering and Construction — per Ord.
721-10 — bid due January 19, 2012 (advertised 1/4/2012 and 1/11/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Concrete, 2012 — Office of Capital Projects — Division of Engineering and Construction —
per Ord. 1603-11 — bid due January 19, 2012 (advertised 1/4/2012 and 1/11/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Recyclable materials processing — Department of Public Works — Division
of Waste Collection and Disposal — per C.O. Sec. 181.18 — bid due January 27, 2012
(advertised 1/4/2012 and 1/11/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

City Planning Commission
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1309-11 — South Side of Miles Ave. (Between E. 116th St. & E.
128th St.) — Change Use, Area, and Height Districts (O 13-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Agreement — Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corporation — Transportation For Livable
Communities Initiative (Ward 01 NCF) (O 15-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Henley Ave., S.W.- intention to vacate a portion (Ward 16) (R 7-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

Cleveland Clinic Foundation
East 96th Street — encroach into right-of-way — Elevator & UPS Room — Capital Projects
(Ward 06) (O 2-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Enact New Section 571.91 — Permits Required For Commercial Ground Transportation Vehicles
Operating At CHIA — Amend Section 571.99 Penalty (O 8-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

Codified Ordinances
Enact New Section 571.91 — Permits Required For Commercial Ground Transportation Vehicles
Operating at CHIA — Amend Section 571.99 Penalty (O 8-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Amend Section 603.091 — Unlawful Restraint Of Animals (O 12-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

Community Development
Broxton Ave., 14500 — PPN 024-27-032 — Land Reutilization Program — Cynthia J. Stowasser
(Ward 19) (O 4-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Harvard Rd., 10003 — PPN 136-08-006 — Land Reutilization Program —
National Container Group, LLC. (Ward 02) (O 5-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Holiday Food Gift Card Program — Gift Cards — Community Development Department —
agreement — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc., (Ward 07 NCF) (O 14-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

Concession Agreements
Public Works — Highland Park Golf Course (O 10-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

Condolences
Anderson, Frank William (R 38-12) . . . .
Banks, Wanda Rezina “Zaza” (R 44-12) .
Brown, Rev. Freddie L. (R 39-12). . . . . . .
Chuhran, Virginia (Choma) (R 41-12) . .
Clark Robinson, Nellie Mae (R 37-12) . . .
Green, France Bell (R 40-12) . . . . . . . . . .
Harris, Willie Gene (R 34-12) . . . . . . . . . .
Matthews, Charlesetta (R 43-12) . . . . . . .
May, Capt. Walter T. (R 42-12) . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

29

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14

The City Record

20
Mochan, Margaret A. (R 36-12). . . . . .
Saunders, Arthur G. (R 45-12). . . . . . .
Stover, Deacon Mack N. (R 35-12) . . .
Wright-Watford, Sandra A. (R 46-12)
Zunt, Mary C. (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . .

January 11, 2012
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

14
14
14
14
14

Bacevice, Rev. Joseph A. (R 57-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Douthard, Herman & Malinda (R 53-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forgach, Special Agent Pamela J. (R 55-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fuller, Susie L. (R 48-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nelson, Donna Kelso (R 49-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nemer, Doris (R 50-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pierce, Bryan (R 58-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Ignatius High School Football Team Division 1 State Champions (R 51-12).
St. Ignatius High School Soccer Team Division 1 State Champions (R 52-12) . .
Surufka, O.F.M., Fr. Michael (R 56-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Literary Caf — 25th Anniversary (R 54-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

Congratulations

Contracts
Asphalt Concrete, Recycled Or Virgin — Streets Division (O 1715-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Professional Service — To evaluate, assess, and remediate Brownfield
Properties (O 6-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise First Option to Renew Contract No. 69192 With SS&G Financial Services, Inc. —
Division Of Assessments & Licenses — Audit practices & procedures (O 1-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Contract “PI2010*071 — Independence Excavating — Runway 10-28 Safety Area —
Phase 2 Project (Notification of Subsidiary Agreement) (F 23-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Works — Public Improvement — Repairs to the Browns Stadium — Cleveland Browns (O 9-12) .
Utilities Department — Bissnuss Inc. — For various water proprietary equipment (O 3-12) . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 21
. . . . . . . . . 16
. . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . 17
. . . . . . . . . 14

Cuyahoga County
NorthCoast Brownfield Coalition’s Community Assessment Initiative — For 1265 West 65th
St. (Ward 15) (R 16-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
NorthCoast Brownfield Coalition’s Community Assessment Initiative — For 1265 West 65th
St. (Ward 15) (R 16-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

Economic Development Department
Professional service contract to evaluate, assess, and remediate Brownfield Properties
(O 6-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

Encroachments
East 96th Street — right-of-way — Elevator & UPS Room — Cleveland Clinic Foundation —
Capital Projects (Ward 06) (O 2-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Mayor Jackson — Urging Support of Legislation For Adoption of The U.S. Conference
Of Mayors’ Resolution No. 43 (R 11-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

Fees
Enact New Section 571.91 — Permits Required For Commercial Ground Transportation Vehicles
Operating at CHIA — Amend Section 571.99 Penalty (O 8-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

Finance Department
Exercise First Option to renew Contract No. 69192 With SS&G Financial Services, Inc. —
Division Of Assessments & Licenses — Audit practices & procedures (O 1-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Highland Park Golf Course
Public Works — Concession Agreement (O 10-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

Land Reutilization Program
Broxton Ave., 14500 — PPN 024-27-032 — Cynthia J. Stowasser (Ward 19) (O 4-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Harvard Rd., 10003 — PPN 136-08-006 — National Container Group, LLC. (Ward 02) (O 5-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

30

January 11, 2012

The City Record

21

Liquor Permits
Bellaire Rd., 10606 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 17) (F 32-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 9th St., 1440 — new application (Ward 03) (F 24-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 1305 — new application (Ward 03) (F 25-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jefferson Ave., 819 (1st. Fl. & Bsmt. & Patio) — transfer of ownership application (Ward
03) (F 26-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mayfield Rd., 12018 -transfer of ownership and location application (Ward 09) (F 29-12) . . . . .
Public Sq., 100 — new application (Ward 03) (F 27-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 10109 -11 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 09) (F 30-12) . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 18506 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 986-11 (Ward 11)
(R 18-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 5393 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — stock transfer application (Ward 08) (F 28-12). . . . . . .
Storer Ave., 6422 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 997-11 (Ward 15) (R 20-12) .
Waterloo Rd., 15222 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1168-11 & 263-11 (Ward
11) (R 19-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1313 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 1529-11
(Ward 03) (R 17-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodside Ave., 12713-17 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 10) (F 31-12) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

13
13
13
13

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Mayor’s Office
Mayor Jackson — Urging Support of Legislation for Adoption of the U.S. Conference
Of Mayors’ Resolution No. 43 (R 11-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

Oath of Office
Cromer, Keith A. — Interim Assistant Director — Utilities Department (F 22-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Wood, Jason A. — Assistant Director — Utilities Department (F 21-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

Permits
Enact New Section 571.91 — Permits Required For Commercial Ground Transportation Vehicles
Operating at CHIA — Amend Section 571.99 Penalty (O 8-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

Port Control Department
Contract “PI2010*071 — Independence Excavating — Runway 10-28 Safety Area — Phase 2 Project
(Notification of Subsidiary Agreement) (F 23-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Enact New Section 571.91 — Permits Required For Commercial Ground Transportation Vehicles
Operating at CHIA — Amend Section 571.99 Penalty (O 8-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

Professional Services
Economic Development — Contract to evaluate, assess, and remediate Brownfield Properties
(O 6-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Exercise First Option to renew Contract No. 69192 with SS&G Financial Services, Inc. —
Division Of Assessments & Licenses — Audit practices & procedures (O 1-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Public Improvements
Public Works — Contracts for repairs to The Browns Stadium — Contract with Cleveland Browns
(O 9-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

Public Works
Asphalt Concrete, Recycled or Virgin — Streets Division (O 1715-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Concession Agreement for Highland Park Golf Course (O 10-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Public Improvement Contracts for repairs to The Browns Stadium — Contract with Cleveland
Browns (O 9-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

Recognition
Cleveland Peacemakers Alliance (R 59-12) . . . . . . .
Demore, Charles “Charlie” (R 61-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Egger, Terrance C.Z. (R 63-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greater Cleveland Aquarium (R 60-12) . . . . . . . . . .
Kelsheimer, Jerry L. (R 64-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tallerworks Music & Legacy Exhibition (R 62-12)
Weiss, Zev (R 65-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

14
14
14
14
14
14
14

Resolution of Support
Mayor Jackson — Urging Support of legislation for Adoption of The U.S. Conference
Of Mayors’ Resolution No. 43 (R 11-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
NorthCoast Brownfield Coalition’s Community Assessment Initiative — For 1265 West 65th
St. (Ward 15) (R 16-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

31

The City Record

22

January 11, 2012

Safety Department
Amend Section 603.091 — Unlawful Restraint of Animals (O 12-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

Stadium
Public Works — Public Improvement Contracts for Repairs to The Browns Stadium — Contract
with Cleveland Browns (O 9-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

Street Vacation
Henley Ave., S.W.- intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward
16) (R 7-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

Streets Division
Asphalt Concrete, Recycled or Virgin (O 1715-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

U.S. Conference Mayors
Mayor Jackson — Urging Support of Legislation for Adoption of The U.S. Conference
Of Mayors’ Resolution No. 43 (R 11-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

Utilities Department
Asphalt Concrete, Recycled or Virgin — Streets Division (O 1715-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cromer, Keith A. — Oath of Office — Interim Assistant Director (F 22-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Requirement contracts with Bissnuss Inc. — For various water proprietary equipment (O 3-12)
Wood, Jason A. — Oath of Office — Assistant Director (F 21-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

21
13
14
13

Ward 01
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City Planning Commission — Agreement — Mt. Pleasant Now Development Corporation —
Transportation For Livable Communities Initiative (Ward 01 NCF) (O 15-12) . . . . . . . . .
Douthard, Herman & Malinda — Congratulations (R 53-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Matthews, Charlesetta — Condolence (R 43-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

19
14
14
14

Ward 02
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1309-11 — South Side of Miles Ave. (Between E. 116th
128th St.) — Change Use, Area, and Height Districts (O 13-12) . . . . . . . . . . .
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Rd., 10003 — PPN 136-08-006 — Land Reutilization Program —
National Container Group, LLC. (O 5-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wright-Watford, Sandra A. — Condolence (R 46-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

St. & E.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Ward 03
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 9th St., 1440 — new application — liquor permit (F 24-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Egger, Terrance C.Z. — Recognition (R 63-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 1305 — new application — liquor permit (F 25-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greater Cleveland Aquarium — Recognition (R 60-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Green, France Bell — Condolence (R 40-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jefferson Ave., 819 (1st. Fl. & Bsmt. & Patio) — transfer of ownership application — liquor
permit (F 26-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kelsheimer, Jerry L. — Recognition (R 64-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Sq., 100 — new application — liquor permit (F 27-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Literary Caf — 25th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 54-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Weiss, Zev — Recognition (R 65-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1313 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 1529-11 —
liquor permit (R 17-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

14
13
14
13
14
14

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

13
14
13
14
14

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Ward 04
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

32

January 11, 2012

The City Record

23

Ward 05
Anderson, Frank William — Condolence (R 38-12) . . . . .
Brown, Rev. Freddie L. — Condolence (R 39-12) . . . . . . .
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12)
Matthews, Charlesetta — Condolence (R 43-12) . . . . . . . .
Mitchell, Jr., Julius — Appreciation (R 66-12). . . . . . . . . .
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

14
14
14
14
14
14

WARD 06
Banks, Wanda Rezina “Zaza” — Condolence (R 44-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 96th Street — encroach into right-of-way — Elevator & UPS Room — Cleveland Clinic
Foundation — Capital Projects (O 2-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tallerworks Music & Legacy Exhibition — Recognition (R 62-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Ward 07
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Robinson, Nellie Mae — Condolence (R 37-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Demore, Charles “Charlie” — Recognition (R 61-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holiday Food Gift Card Program — Gift Cards — Community Development Department —
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc., (Ward 07 NCF) (O 14-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.............
.............
.............
agreement —
.............
.............

. . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . 19
. . . . . . . 14

Ward 08
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fuller, Susie L. — Congratulations (R 48-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Saunders, Arthur G. — Condolence (R 45-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 5393 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — stock transfer application — liquor permit (F 28-12) .
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

14
14
14
13
14

Ward 09
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mayfield Rd., 12018 -transfer of ownership and location application — liquor permit (Ward
09) (F 29-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 10109 -11 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 30-12) . . . . .
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Ward 10
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Woodside Ave., 12713-17 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 31-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Ward 11
Bacevice, Rev. Joseph A. — Congratulations (R 57-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chuhran, Virginia (Choma) — Condolence (R 41-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
May, Capt. Walter T. — Condolence (R 42-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 18506 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 986-11 — liquor permit
(Ward 11) (R 18-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Surufka, O.F.M., Fr. Michael — Congratulations (R 56-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Rd., 15222 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1168-11 & 263-11 — liquor
permit (Ward 11) (R 19-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

14
14
14
14

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Ward 12
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Forgach, Special Agent Pamela J. — Congratulations (R 55-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Ward 13
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

33

The City Record

24

January 11, 2012

Ward 14
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Ward 15
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mochan, Margaret A. — Condolence (R 36-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
NorthCoast Brownfield Coalition’s Community Assessment Initiative — For 1265 West 65th
St. (R 16-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Storer Ave., 6422 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 997-11 — liquor permit
(R 20-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Ward 16
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Henley Ave., S.W.- intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (R 7-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Ward 17
Bellaire Rd., 10606 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 32-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Ward 18
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Peacemakers Alliance — Recognition (R 59-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Greater Cleveland Aquarium — Recognition (R 60-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harris, Willie Gene — Condolence (R 34-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nelson, Donna Kelso — Congratulations (R 49-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nemer, Doris — Congratulations (R 50-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Ignatius High School Football Team Division 1 State Champions — Congratulations (R 51-12)
St. Ignatius High School Soccer Team Division 1 State Champions — Congratulations (R 52-12) . .
Stover, Deacon Mack N. — Condolence (R 35-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

15
14
14
14

Ward 19
Broxton Ave., 14500 — PPN 024-27-032 — Land Reutilization Program —
(O 4-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cimperman, Samuel Kelly — Congratulations (R 47-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pierce, Bryan — Congratulations (R 58-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zunt, Mary C. — Condolence (R 33-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Cynthia J. Stowasser
....................
....................
....................
....................

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

Water Division
Utilities Department — Requirement contracts with Bissnuss Inc. — For various water
proprietary equipment (O 3-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

Zoning
Amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 1309-11 — South Side of Miles Ave. (Between E. 116th St. & E.
128th St.) — Change Use, Area, and Height Districts (O 13-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

34

