The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

February the Twenty-Ninth, Two Thousand and Twelve

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
20
20
22
27
28
28
28
28
29
29
30

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name Residence
Terrell H. Pruitt ..................................................3877 East 189th Street
44122
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Joe Cimperman .............................................................P.O. Box 91688
44101
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland.............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
TJ Dow..................................................................7715 Decker Avenue
44103
Jeffrey D. Johnson ..............................................9024 Parkgate Avenue
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Eugene R. Miller ..................................................13615 Kelso Avenue
44110
Michael D. Polensek.............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli.................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Kevin J. Kelley.................................................5904 Parkridge Avenue
44144
Brian J. Cummins ...........................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Matthew Zone ....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ..................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady .........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Jenita McGowan, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Interim Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100

DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Interim Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Alex Margevicius, Interim Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Interim Director, Mural Building, 75
Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Thomas E. Vanover, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members;
Mary Haas McGraw, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber,
Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry, President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President
Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Interim Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry; Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Interim Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Chairman; Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney;
Councilman Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Interim Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Pinkey S. Carr – Courtroom 12A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan – Courtroom 13A
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 2012

Vol. 99

No. 5125

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2012
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013
MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

FROM OHIO DIVISION OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 221-12.
Re: #1883538 — D2, D2X, D3, D3A,
D6 Stock Transfer Application — D
& A Restaurants, Inc., d.b.a., Hecks
Café, 2927 Bridge Avenue and Patio.
(Ward 3). Received.
File No. 222-12.
Re: #2485361 — D1, D2, D3, D3A,
D6 Transfer of Ownership Application — Elixir Entertainment, LLFC,
d.b.a., Jezebels, 12718 Larchmere
Boulevard. (Ward 6). Received.
File No. 223-12.
Re: #6318677 — C1, Transfer of
Application
—
Elaee
Ownership
d.b.a.,
Lorain
Avenue
Nawabit,
Supermarket, 5802 Lorain Avenue,
2032 West 58th Street. (Ward 15).
Received.
PLAT

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, February 27, 2012
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, the President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Reed, Sweeney,
Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff, Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer, Valarie J. McCall, Chief
of Government Affairs, Chris Warren, Chief of Regional Development,
Monyka S. Price, Chief of Education,
Maureen Harper, Chief of Communications, Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary, Jenita McGowan, Chief of
Sustainability, Interim Law Director
Langhenry, Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith, Wasik, Butler, Flask,
Cox, Rush, Rybka, Southerington,
Griffin, Brown, Fumich, Ambrose,
and Teresa Stevenson of Legislative
Affairs.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Pastor Earl Bumgarner of City of
God Baptist Fellowship Church, 742
East 152nd Street, located in Ward
10. Pledge
of
Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Westbrook, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved.
Seconded by Council
Member Dow.

201

File No. 224-12.
Member
Brancatelli
Council
(Ward 12).
Request for Plat Review and
Approval of the Dedication Plat of
relocation of East 78th Street, located between Marble Avenue and
Osage Avenue.
Approved by Director of City Planning; Referred to Committees on
City Planning and Public Service.
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 225-12—John Samuel Jordan.
Res. No. 226-12—Andrew “A.J.”
Lanham.
Res.
No.
227-12—Gwenda
Kay
Epperson.
Res. No. 228-12—Margaret Coletta
Conway.
Res.
No.
229-12—Nicole
“Niki”
Vodraska.
Res. No. 230-12—Cordi Stokes.
Res. No. 241-12—William H. Martin.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 231-12—Lithuania’s Independence — 94th Anniversary.
Res. No. 232-12—Randy & Laurene
Daley.
Res. No. 233-12—Bernie Rose.
Res. No. 234-12—Franklin Circle
Christian
Church
(Disciples
of
Christ) – 170th Anniversary.

The City Record

4
Res.
No.
235-12—Timothy
R.
Wolosz.
Res. No. 236-12—Malak Jadallah.
Res. No. 237-12—Abdulla Mina.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 238-12—On Leong Chinese
Merchants Association – Chinese
Lunar New Year.
Res. No. 239-12—Thomas Austin.
COMMEMORATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 240-12—Johnny Kilbane.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 202-12.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Sections 195.01 to 195.33 and 195.99
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted and
amended by various ordinances; and
to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new Sections
195.01 to 195.2102 and 195.99 relating
to Admissions Tax.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following Sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 195.01 and 195.02, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1955-07, passed
December 3, 2007,
Section 195.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 352-09, passed March 30,
2009, and
Sections 195.04 to 195.33 and 195.99,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 1955-07,
passed December 3, 2007,
are repealed; however, such provisions shall continue, insofar as the
collection of taxes, actions and proceedings for determination, or the
enforcement of any provisions thereunder is concerned, until all of the
taxes levied in the aforesaid period
are fully paid and any and all prosecutions for the collection of taxes or
for the punishment of violations of
those provisions or collection by suits
have been fully terminated, subject to
the conditions and limitations contained therein. Returns due for all or
any part of the last effective period
under those provisions shall be due in
accordance with the provisions provided therein, as though the same
were continuing.
Section 2. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 195.01 to 195.2102 and 195.99 to
read as follows:
CHAPTER 195
ADMISSIONS TAX
Section 195.01 Title
This chapter shall be known as the
“admissions tax chapter” and the tax
imposed by this chapter shall be
known as the ”admissions tax.”
Section 195.02 Definitions
As used in this chapter, the follow-

ing words, terms, or phrases shall
have the following meaning and construction:
(a) “Admission fee” means the total
consideration paid by a purchaser for
the privilege of entry or the right of
entry into a venue, including any consideration paid in excess of the established value charged by a seller upon
the resale of a ticket or other evidence representing the right of entry
into a venue. The total consideration
shall be valued in money, and shall
include the value of all receipts,
including, but not limited to, cash,
credits, property or services of any
kind or nature, whether or not such
consideration was actually received.
(1) A designation of a charge as
anything other than an admission fee
shall not be construed to avoid the
application of the tax if it is in effect
a charge for admission. Admission fee
includes any required fee charged by
the person selling the ticket, and such
required charge shall not avoid classification as an admission fee by its
designation as an ancillary charge
for any other purported purpose separate from admission, such as a service
fee, administrative fee, rental fee,
transaction fee, facility fee, cover
charge, security fee, or any other designated fee or charge.
(2) If an admission fee includes a
charge for food, beverages, property,
rental of property, services, or any
other thing of value, the entire
amount of the charge shall be deemed
to be an admission fee, unless a person who foregoes such items is admitted free and without charge. If a lesser charge is made to a person who
foregoes such items offered, the lesser charge shall constitute the admission fee.
(b) “Board of Review” means the
board created under Section 191.2501
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
(c) “Capacity” means the allowable
occupant load in the building and all
parts thereof as specified on the certificate of occupancy.
(d) “City” means the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
(e) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of the Division of Assessments and Licenses of the City, or his
authorized representative.
(f) “Monthly interest rate” means
the interest rate specified in division
(b) of Section 195.14.
(g) “Day” means a calendar day.
(h) “Deficiency” means any amount
of tax, penalty, or interest due to the
City under this chapter, whether
reported or otherwise, that has not
been paid within the time allowed for
remittance.
(i) “Established Value” means the
admission fee established by the
issuer for entry into a venue or a ticket issued for the right of entry into a
venue. Prima facie evidence of the
established value includes, but is not
limited to, the face value printed on a
ticket, box office displays, venue seating charts, purchaser receipts, issuer
statements, certificates of registration and applications thereto, or any
other identifiable means that demonstrate the admissions fee charged by
an issuer for a ticket.
(j) “Event” means any single performance, match, competition, sport,
facility usage, facility access, viewing, presentation, lecture, training,
indoor or outdoor gathering, or any
other activity. Event does not include
academic courses conducted by an
accredited college or university,
fundraisers for the support of a candidate appearing on a ballot for public
office, or continuing education semi-

202

February 29, 2012
nars accredited by a bona fide licensing authority.
(k) “Filing” means any document,
application, return, notice, or other
information required to be submitted
to the Commissioner.
(l) “Final assessment” means an
assessment issued by the Commissioner that is no longer subject to a
valid appeal by the person assessed.
(m) “Fiscal officer” means the
employee, or agent, of a person
responsible for the collection of tax
under this chapter who is primarily
responsible for the financial management functions of such person in the
ordinary course of their employment
or service, including, but not limited
to, the employee or agent attesting to
any return or other document submitted to the City as required by this
chapter.
(n) “Issuer” means the venue operator granting the right of entry as evidenced by a ticket or other means to
such venue.
(o) “Month” means a calendar
month.
(p) “Original sale” means the first
sale of a ticket by an issuer or on
behalf of an issuer.
(q) “Person” means any natural
person, partnership, joint venture,
joint stock company, corporation,
estate, trust, business trust, receiver,
administrator, executor, assignee,
trustee in bankruptcy, firm, company,
association, club, syndicate, society,
municipal corporation, the state of
Ohio or any other state, political subdivision of the state of Ohio or any
other state, the United States, instrumentality of the United States, or any
group or combination acting as a unit,
whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise. With
respect to provisions of this chapter
that impose or prescribe a penalty,
the term ”person” shall include the
owners of an association, passthrough entity and unincorporated
business entity and the officers of a
corporation.
(r)
“Place”
means
theaters,
amphitheaters, auditoriums, stadiums, athletic pavilions, athletic
fields, baseball and athletic parks,
circuses,
sideshows,
amusement
parks, observation decks, dance halls,
concert halls, convention centers, performance centers, arenas, golf courses, clubs, cabarets, taverns, bars,
dance shows, rinks, courses, courts,
recreation and fitness centers, tents,
open air festivals, ballrooms, hotel
conference
centers,
restaurants,
cafés, or any indoor or outdoor area,
building, lot, structure, or other space
located within the City. Place does
not include those exclusively owned
and operated by a religious organization or an association organized on
the basis of national heritage; provided, that such organization has among
its stated purposes in its charter the
nature of its association as a religious
or national heritage organization and
is conducted and regarded as such.
(s) “Purchaser” means the person
paying an admission fee in exchange
for entry or the right of entry into a
venue.
(t) “Reporting period” or “reporting
month” means a single calendar
month.
(u) “Responsible Party” means any
person who is jointly and severally
liable with a venue operator or seller
for the payment of any tax, interest,
or penalties, or the performance of
any duty imposed by this chapter.
(v) “Secondary sale” means any
sale of a ticket after its original sale.
(w) “Seller” means the holder of a
ticket offered for sale by such holder

February 29, 2012
or on its behalf by another. Seller
includes holders licensed as ticket
brokers under Section 698.01, and ticket exchanges as defined by division
(cc) of Section 195.02.
(x) “Tax” means the admissions tax
imposed under Section 195.03.
(y) “Taxpayer” means any person
responsible for collecting, remitting,
or paying the tax, or performing any
duty imposed by this chapter.
(z) “Ticket” means an identifiable
claim that represents and entitles the
holder to the right of entry into a
venue for which such claim was
issued. The form of such claim or evidence thereof may be of paper, electronic data, or any other identifiable
means.
(aa) “Ticket agent” means a person
or persons authorized to offer tickets
for sale on behalf of an issuer.
(bb) “Ticket broker” has the same
meaning defined in Section 698.01.
(cc) “Ticket exchange” means a
person who offers a ticket, or the
right of entry, for sale on behalf of
another seller and controls the settlement of funds upon the sale of such
ticket, or right of entry, on behalf of
such seller and the purchaser in a
Ticket
exchange
transaction.
includes ticket listing services, auctions, or other similar services,
whether electronic or otherwise.
(dd) “Transaction” means the payment of an admission fee by the purchaser to another in exchange for a
ticket, entry, or the right of entry, into
a venue. Transaction includes the
original sale by an issuer or resale by
a subsequent seller.
(ee) “Venue” means any place hosting an event where an admission fee
is charged in exchange for entry into
such place.
(ff) “Venue operator” or “operator”
means the person or persons responsible for managing, facilitating, or
operating a venue, whether by lease,
rental, concession, or otherwise.
(gg) “Venue owner” means the person or persons vested with legal title
to real property, or any portion thereof, upon which a venue is operated.
Section 195.03 Tax Imposed
(a) Purpose of Tax. An excise tax is
imposed by this chapter for the purpose of providing funds for the following:
(1) the elimination of deficits in
City funds and the payment of costs of
general municipal operations;
(2) the procurement of fixed assets
or permanent improvements including the payment of costs of acquiring,
constructing, reconstructing, rehabilitating,
remodeling,
renovating,
enlarging, improving, equipping or
furnishing facilities by contract,
lease, lease-purchase, or otherwise;
(3) the improvement of the municipal stadium by cooperative arrangements with other political subdivisions or nonprofit corporations, payment of lease rentals, lease-purchase
amounts, debt charges, deposits to
reserves or other funds or other obligations; and
(4) all other lawful purposes.
(b) Order of Application of Revenue. The annual collections shall be
used to fund any lawful municipal
purpose, including payment of costs
of general municipal operations, permanent improvements, and the elimination of deficits in City funds, all
subject to provisions governing the
collection, investment and disbursement of collections from the tax contained in the proceedings for any
bonds, notes, leases, lease-purchase
agreements or other obligations
issued or incurred for those purposes.

The City Record
(c) Tax. An excise tax is imposed
upon the privilege of entry or the
right of entry into any venue within
the City. Such tax is imposed upon the
purchaser for each transaction and
shall be in the amount of eight percent (8%) of the admission fee
charged by:
(1) the issuer, or a ticket agent on
behalf of the issuer, and
(2) each subsequent seller to the
extent such charge exceeds the established value of the ticket or tickets
sold.
(A) The concept of cost basis shall
have no bearing on the calculation of
tax imposed by this chapter.
(B) Any ticket sold by a seller for
less than its established value shall
not give rise to a refund or offset, or
reduce the tax due on any other ticket
sold by that seller for an amount in
excess of its established value.
(d) Application. The admissions
tax imposed by this chapter is in addition to any other taxes imposed by
law on or relating to transactions or
the income or gross receipts therefrom. The admissions tax shall apply
to every admission transaction concerning a venue located within the
City, and shall include admissions
transactions executed or delivered
inside or outside of the City.
Section 195.031 Credits Against Tax
(a) Credits.
(1) Admission to Museums on City
Owned Land. Any transaction where
an admission fee is paid to a qualifying museum located on land leased
from the City shall be entitled to a
credit against the amount of tax that
would have otherwise been due under
division (c)(1) of Section 195.03 in the
amount equal to two percent (2%) of
the admission fee charged. A qualifying museum includes those museums
located on land leased from the City
in accordance with a written lease
agreement, including any amendments, extensions, or addendums
thereto, that is entered into before
August 22, 1991. Before any credit
claimed under this section becomes
valid, a copy of the written land lease
agreement must be deposited with
and confirmed by the Commissioner.
For purposes of this section, any
extension, amendment, or addendum
extending the term or expiration of
an earlier lease agreement that was
executed before August 22, 1991, shall
constitute an entirely new and distinct lease and shall not relate back to
the effective date of the agreement
being amended.
(2) Admission to Gateway Arena.
Any transaction where an admission
fee is paid to the venue operator of the
indoor arena facility (the ”Gateway
Arena”) constructed by Gateway Economic Development Corporation of
Greater Cleveland (”Gateway”) in
accordance with that certain Agreement Relating to Ownership, Financing, Construction and Operation of a
Sports Facility and Related Economic
Development Projects, dated as of
November 7, 1990, as amended by the
First Amendment as authorized by
Ordinance No. 325-92 (the ”ThreeParty Agreement”), between the City,
Gateway, and the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio (the ”County”) shall be
entitled to a credit equal to the
amount of tax that would have otherwise been due under division (c)(1)
of Section 195.03; provided, however,
that the credit provided by this division (a)(2) shall apply and be effective only as long as there are outstanding any Arena Bonds to which
reference is made in the Cooperative
Agreement between the City and

203

5
County authorized by Ordinance No.
327-92 (the ”Cooperative Agreement”)
(such Bonds being here after referred
to as the ”Arena Bonds”) and only if
and as long as the following conditions are met and shall have been certified to be met by the Director of Law
to the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses:
(A) Gateway shall pay or shall
cause the lessees or operators of the
Gateway Arena to pay to the Trustee
for the holders of the Arena Bonds
(the ”Trustee”) amounts equal to the
credit provided by division (a)(2) of
this section at the times and in the
manner that such taxes would have
been otherwise payable under this
chapter. In computing the amount
under
this
division
payable
(a)(2)(A), the admission fee charges
for admissions to the Arena shall be
deemed to be net of the amount
under
this
division
payable
(a)(2)(A).
(B) The County shall, in its trust
agreement or a related agreement
with the Trustee, require the Trustee:
(i) to retain each Bond Year as
defined in the Cooperative Agreement
from the amounts paid to the Trustee
under division (a)(2)(A) of this section to secure payments with respect
to the Arena Bonds as provided in the
Cooperative Agreement, an amount
up to the sum of: (1) three percent
(3%) of all admissions fee charges
for admissions transactions to the
Gateway Arena during the related
Collection Year as provided in the
Cooperative Agreement for: basketball games played by the Cleveland
Cavaliers at the Gateway Arena during each basketball season (including divisional, conference and championship play-off games); preseason
exhibition
basketball
games
or
played by said Cavaliers at the Gateway Arena and the NBA All-Star
Game and any other event held at The
Gateway Arena in which professional
basketball players participate (collectively, ”Games”), plus (2) the percentage, equal to the difference
between the tax rate levied in
§195.03(c) and six percent (6%), of
admissions fees charged during the
Collection Year for admission to the
Gateway Arena for Games, plus (3)
the percentage, equal to the difference between the tax rate levied in
§195.03(c) and six percent (6%), of
admissions fees charged during the
Collection Year for admission to the
Gateway Arena for all events other
than Games.
(ii) to release and pay to the City at
the end of each Bond Year any of such
amount
described
in
division
(a)(2)(B)(i) above not used or needed for such purpose during such Bond
Year, together with any investment
income earned thereon, and
(iii) to pay any such amounts in
excess of the amount described in
division (a)(2)(B)(i) above directly
to the City at the end of each Bond
Year, together with any investment
income earned thereon.
(C) Gateway shall prepare and submit to the Director of Finance of the
City and the Clerk of City Council, or
cause the preparation and submission
to the Director of Finance of the City
and the Clerk of City Council, such
returns and reports regarding the
amounts paid to the Trustee under
division (a)(2)(A) of this section as
the Directors of Law and Finance
shall reasonably require to demonstrate Gateway’s compliance with
this section.
(D) Gateway shall agree to repay
or cause to be repaid to the City from
Gateway’s future excess revenues

6
any moneys paid to the Trustee under
division (a)(2)(B)(i) of this section
actually applied to the payments with
respect to the Arena Bonds with interest and on such other terms and in
such form as are consistent with Gateway’s obligations under the trust
indentures and related agreements
securing Gateway’s bonds and the
Arena Bonds and as the City’s Director of Finance and Director of Law
deem acceptable in the interests of
the City.
(E) Gateway shall make or cause to
be made such other assurances and
commitments as the City’s Director of
Finance and Director of Law deem
necessary, and appropriate to protect
the City’s entitlements under this
division (a)(2) and provide copies of
such other assurances and commitments to the Clerk of the Council.
(b) Application of Credit Amounts
and Reporting.
(1) Availability. Any credit provided by division (a) of this section shall
only apply against the amount of tax
that would have otherwise been due
under division (c)(1) of Section
195.03. No credit shall be applied
against any tax due under division
(c)(2) of Section 195.03.
(2) Timing. The credits available
under division (a) of this section
shall be applied at the time of the
transaction by the issuer, or the
issuer’s ticket agent, and the tax otherwise due from the purchaser shall
be reduced by the credit amount.
(3) Reporting. Any credit amount
applied against the tax that would be
otherwise due under this chapter,
notwithstanding this section, shall be
reported by the person responsible for
the collection of the tax on forms prescribed by the Commissioner.
Section 195.032 Admission Fees
Exempt From Tax
(a) Exemptions.
(1) Charitable Event Exemption.
Any admission fee paid for entry into
a qualifying event as defined by division (a)(1)(A) of this section shall be
exempt in the amount equal to one
hundred percent (100%) of the admission fee charged by the event issuer.
The amount exempted shall only be
exempt from the tax due under division (c)(1) of Section 195.03, and shall
not reduce or apply to any tax otherwise due under division (c)(2) of Section 195.03.
(A) A qualifying event includes
those where (i) the issuer is of the
type listed in division (a)(1)(B) of
this section and (ii) no part of the net
earnings thereof inures to the benefit
of any private stockholder or individual other than the issuer.
(B) Associations eligible for the
exemption provided for by this division (a)(1) include those organized
exclusively for the benefit of:
(i) religious, educational, or bona
fide charitable institutions;
(ii) the prevention of cruelty to
children or animals;
(iii) maintaining symphony orchestras which receive substantial support from voluntary contributions;
(iv) improving any municipal corporation, or of maintaining a cooperative or community center, moving picture theater, or swimming pool;
(v) persons in the military or naval
forces of the United States, or of
National
Guard
organizations,
reserve officer associations or posts
or organizations of war veterans or
auxiliary units or societies of any
such posts or organizations, if such
posts, organizations, units or societies are organized in the State;
(vi) members of the police or fire

The City Record
departments of any municipal corporation, or the dependents or heirs of
such members; or
(vii) the general revenue fund of
any municipal corporation or of any
fund of any municipal corporation
under the control of a recreation commission.
(C) The Commissioner shall promulgate regulations establishing
guidelines for calculating net earnings for purposes of determining compliance with this division (a)(1)(A).
(D) The exemption provided for by
this division (a)(1) shall not be allowable in the case of an admission fee
paid to any venue:
(i) eligible for a credit under division (a)(1) of Section 195.031;
(ii) hosting an event of wrestling,
prize fighting or boxing, sparring or
other pugilistic matches or exhibitions, unless exclusively for the benefit of an organization under division
(a)(1)(B)(v) of this section or events
of which all the contestants are amateurs and the entire proceeds thereof
are devoted to a legitimate charitable
purpose, excepting therefrom the necessary expenses, which shall in no
event include payment to any contestant other than his necessary traveling expenses;
(iii) hosting an event of any athletic game or exhibition the proceeds of
which inure wholly or partly to the
benefit of any high school, academy,
preparatory or other school or wholly
or partly to the benefit of any college
or university;
(iv) where the issuer does not control the sale of tickets to the event for
which the exemption is requested; or
(v) where the event consists of talent, services or other items that are
compensated for on a percentage
basis if such percentage results in a
payment in excess of the flat rate
ordinarily charged for the same talent, services or other items. The Commissioner shall promulgate regulations establishing guidelines for
determining the ordinarily charges
for purposes of compliance with this
division.
(E) At any time after the event for
which an exemption from admission
tax has been granted, the Commissioner may demand the treasurer of
the institution, society or organization for whose benefit such event was
held to file an itemized statement
with the Commissioner setting forth
the amount of money actually
received by such institution, society
or organization together with the
expenses of promoting and conducting such event. If such statement
shows a disproportionate expenditure
for promoting and conducting such
event, in relation to the profits, if any,
no such exemption shall thereafter be
allowed to such institution, society or
organization.
The
Commissioner
shall promulgate regulations for the
determination of abuse under this
division.
(2) Not-for-Profit Live Theater
Event Exemption. Any admission fee
paid for entry into a qualifying event
as defined by division (a)(2)(A) of
this section shall be exempt in the
amount equal to one hundred percent
(100%) of the admission fee charged
by the event issuer. The amount
exempted shall only be exempt from
the tax due under division (c)(1) of
Section 195.03, and shall not reduce or
apply to any tax otherwise due under
division (c)(2) of Section 195.03.
(A) A qualifying event includes
those presenting live theater, live
opera, live ballet, or live exhibition of
dance, musical performance, or monologue productions and where the

204

February 29, 2012
issuer can demonstrate (i) the issuer
is of the type listed in division
(a)(2)(B) of this section, (ii) the
issuer will receive at least twenty percent (20%) of the net profits, if any,
and (iii) the issuer will bear the risk
of at least twenty percent (20%) of
the losses, if any.
(B) Associations eligible for the
exemption provided for by this division (a)(2) include any institution,
society or organization that:
(i) has received a determination
from the Internal Revenue Service
that the organization is exempt from
federal income tax under § 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended;
(ii) actively participates in planning and conducting the event;
(iii) is responsible for the safety
and success of the event;
(iv) is organized for the purpose of
sponsoring live theater, live opera,
live ballet, or live exhibition of dance,
musical performance, or monologue
productions;
(v) has among the stated purposes
in its charter the promotion of arts
education in the communities which
it serves; and
(vi) controls the sale of tickets to
the event for which the exemption is
requested.
(C) The Commissioner shall promulgate regulations establishing
guidelines of calculating net profits
and losses for purposes of compliance
with this division (a)(2)(A).
(D) At any time after the event for
which an exemption from admission
tax has been granted, the Commissioner may demand from the treasurer or fiscal officer of the institution,
society or organization, an itemized
statement setting forth the amount of
money actually received by such
institution, society or organization
together with the expenses of promoting and conducting such event. If
such statement demonstrates a failure to qualify in accordance with this
division, no such exemption shall
thereafter be allowed to such institution, society or organization. The
Commissioner shall promulgate regulations for the determination of abuse
under this division.
(3) Small Venue Exemption. Any
transaction where an admission fee is
paid to a qualifying issuer that has a
total capacity of less than five hundred (500) people shall be exempt in
the amount provided for by division
(a)(3)(B) of this section.
(A) A qualifying issuer includes
any venue operator that has not:
(i) been subject to an assessment of
tax under this chapter during the previous twelve months; and
(ii) had three (3) or more convictions for any violation of federal,
state, or local law related to the operation of a venue located within the
City during the previous twelve
months;
(B) The exemption amount allowed
for purposes of this division (a)(3)
shall be the product of the admission
fee charged and the applicable percentage corresponding to the venue
capacity listed below:
(i) less than or equal to two hundred-fifty (250) people – seventy five
percent (75%);
(ii) two hundred-fifty (250) people
or more, but less than five hundred
(500) people – fifty percent (50%).
(C) Any exemption granted under
this division (a)(3) shall expire on
the thirty-first (31st) day of March of
the next year following the date of
issuance, unless renewed by the
venue operator.
(b) Exemption Availability, Application, and Reporting.

February 29, 2012
(1) Availability. Any exemption
provided by this section shall only
apply to transaction subject to the tax
that would have otherwise been due
under division (c)(1) of Section
195.03. No exemption may be claimed
for any admission fee subject to tax
under division (c)(2) of Section
195.03.
(2)
Application
Required.
No
exemption provided by this section is
without
first
obtaining
valid
approval from the Commissioner by
obtaining a certificate of exemption.
Application must be made on forms
prescribed by the Commissioner and
be approved before any event for
which an exemption is claimed. No
admission fee or any part thereof
shall be exempt without a valid certificate of exemption issued by the
Commissioner.
(3) Certificate of Exemption. Application for a certificate of exemption
shall be made on forms prescribed by
the Commissioner which shall contain any information he deems necessary for the application’s verification
and approval. Application for any
exemption provided for by this section shall be due thirty (30) calendar
days prior to the event subject to the
application or fifteen (15) days prior
to the date that admission tickets for
the event subject to the application
are first made available for sale,
whichever is earlier.
(4) Identification and Expiration.
Any certificate of exemption issued
by the Commissioner under divisions
(a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section shall
identify the event and dates so
exempted and shall only be valid for
those events and dates identified. Any
certificate of exemption issued by the
Commissioner under division (a)(3)
of this section shall be valid upon
issuance and shall expire on the thirty-first (31st) day of March of the
next year following the date of
issuance and shall thereafter expire
and cease to be of any effect.
(5) Timing. The amounts exempt
on the basis of a valid certificate of
exemption under division (a) of this
section shall not be subjected to tax
by the issuer at the time of the transaction, or the issuer’s ticket agent,
and the admission fee subject to tax
shall be reduced by the exemption
amount.
(6) Reporting. Any admission fee,
or part thereof, claimed to be exempt
shall be reported by the person
responsible for the collection of the
tax along with other items required
by this chapter on forms prescribed
by the Commissioner.
(7) Exempt Only as to Tax Liability. Any operator dealing in whole or
in part in exempt transactions shall
not, by reason of such transactions
being exempt from the tax, be exempt
from the duties of a venue operator
imposed under this chapter.
Section 195.04 Collection of Tax
(a) Collection at Source. Any tax
due under this chapter shall be collected at the source and time of the
transaction by the person responsible
for collection from the person paying
the admission fee.
(1) Taxes Held In Trust. The tax
required to be collected under this
chapter shall be deemed to be held in
trust for the benefit of the City and
deemed to be trust funds in the hands
of the person required to collect the
tax, until such collected taxes are
paid to the Commissioner as provided
in this chapter.
(2) Strict Liability. Any person
required to collect the tax imposed
under this chapter who fails, refuses

The City Record
or neglects to collect the tax, or having collected the tax, fails, refuses or
neglects to remit the tax to the Commissioner in the manner prescribed
by this chapter, or regulations thereunder, and regardless of whether
such failure, refusal or neglect is the
result of his own act or the result of
acts or conditions beyond his control
or whether or not such tax has in fact
been collected, shall be liable to the
City for the amount of such tax.
(b) Persons Responsible for Collection.
(1) Original Sales. Any issuer, or
any ticket agent on behalf of an
issuer, receiving an admission fee,
not otherwise exempt on the basis of a
valid exemption issued under division
(a) of Section 195.032, shall collect the
amount of the tax imposed under division (c)(1) of Section 195.03, less
allowable credit amounts applicable
to original sales under § 195.031, from
the purchaser.
(2) Secondary Sales. Any seller
receiving an admission fee in excess
of the established value for the right
of admission being sold, shall collect
the amount of the tax imposed under
division (c)(2) of Section 195.03 from
the purchaser.
(c) Taxes to be Remitted to Commissioner. All taxes collected or that
should have been collected shall be
paid over to the Commissioner as provided by this chapter.
Section 195.041 Other Responsible
Parties
(a) Agency. Where an operator performs his functions through a managing agent or ticket agent of any type
or character, other than an employee,
the agent shall also be deemed a
venue operator for purposes of this
chapter and shall have the same
duties and liabilities as his principal.
Where the agent collects admissions
tax on behalf of his principal, such
principal shall be jointly responsible
for reporting and remitting the tax to
the City. Compliance with the provisions of this chapter by either the
principal or the agent shall be considered to be compliance by both.
(b) Joint and Several Liability for
Tax, Interest, and Penalties.
(1) Any fiscal officer of a seller
who knowingly fails to collect the
tax, file required returns, or make tax
payments when due to the Commissioner shall be jointly and severally
liable with the seller for all taxes due
under this chapter, including interest
and penalties assessed thereon. The
personal liability of the fiscal officer
shall survive the merger, acquisition,
liquidation, or dissolution of the operator. The Commissioner shall promulgate additional regulations establishing guidance on the determination of
a fiscal officer for purposes of this
chapter.
(2) Any venue owner who knowingly permits its place to be used by a
venue operator, who is not the venue
owner, for hosting events shall be
jointly and severally liable with the
operator for all collection of taxes due
under this chapter, including interest
and penalties assessed thereon. Any
final assessment of amounts due
under this chapter shall constitute a
lien on the place of the venue owner.
(c) Purchaser Remains Liable.
Nothing in this chapter shall release
the purchaser from liability for the
payment of the tax due but not collected.
The
Commissioner
may
demand and collect any such tax due
directly from the purchaser liable for
the tax if not first paid by another
person responsible for the collection
of the tax under this this section.

205

7
Section 195.05 Reporting and Remittance of Tax
(a) Reporting of Tax.
(1) Monthly Returns. Any person
receiving an admission fee shall file a
remittance return with the Commissioner and report such items as the
Commissioner may require for the calculation and verification of the
return, including admissions fees and
taxes collected, and exemptions and
credits applied. The remittance
return required by this division shall
be filed regardless of the amount of
tax due, if any, and shall be on forms
prescribed by the Commissioner.
Transactions shall be reported on a
monthly basis and shall be due by the
twentieth (20th) day of the month following the reporting period in which
the transactions occurred.
(2) Annual Returns Authorized.
The Commissioner is authorized to
require verified annual returns from
any person receiving admission payments setting forth such additional
information as he may deem necessary to determine and verify the
amount of tax collected and payable
within the reporting year applicable
to the return. The requirement of an
annual return shall be made by rule in
accordance with this chapter.
(3) Amended Returns. An amended
remittance return may be filed to correct any remittance return previously
filed with the Commissioner within
three (3) years from the date of the
original filing. The form of such
amended remittance return shall be
prescribed by the Commissioner and
at a minimum contain all adjusted
amounts separately stated, the reason
for the adjustment, and the period in
which the transactions were or should
have been originally reported. Upon
examination, the Commissioner shall
issue an appropriate assessment of
tax, penalties, and interest, if any.
(4) Frivolous Returns. Any return
required by this chapter, or the rules
and regulations promulgated hereunder, that is determined to be filed in
bad faith, substantially incomplete,
or providing information without a
reasonable basis for such position
stated shall be deemed frivolous.
(5) Certification Required. The
remittance returns required by this
section shall be prepared and filed by
the operator’s fiscal officer responsible for compliance with this chapter.
Such officer shall sign and attest to
the accuracy of the information contained on the remittance return.
(b) Remittance of Tax.
(1) Generally. Except as otherwise
provided, all taxes due under this
chapter shall be remitted to the Commissioner on a monthly basis and
shall be due by the twentieth (20th)
day of the month following the reporting period in which the transaction
subject to tax occurred. A remittance
return shall accompany the payment
of all taxes due.
(2) Collection at Close of Event.
Upon notice by the Commissioner, any
venue operator, conducting an event
pursuant to a temporary registration
under Section 195.03, or should have
obtained a temporary registration
under Section 195.03, and who is not
the venue owner, shall immediately
remit all tax collected required by
this chapter at the close of the event
identified by the Commissioner in his
notice. For purposes of this division,
the Commissioner shall provide seven
(7) days notice prior to the event date,
or upon registration, whichever is
later. The Commissioner is authorized to enter such venue for purposes
of collection under this division. If the
Commissioner demands an expedited

8
collection under this division, any
estimated tax paid under Section
195.2101 shall first be deducted from
any amount due to the Commissioner.
This division shall apply to the payment of tax and shall not shorten the
time allowed for filing a return
required by division (a)(1) of this
section.
(c) Electronic Filing. The Commissioner is authorized to require electronic filing of all remittance returns
and tax payments, and to charge a
reasonable processing fee for those
returns and/or payments submitted
by any means other than by electronic filing. The Commissioner shall
establish a schedule of fees charged
under this division by rule.
(d) Availability of Forms. Failure
to receive or obtain any form prescribed or required by the Commissioner shall not excuse any person
from timely filing such return or from
remitting any admissions tax otherwise due.
Section 195.06 Application of Payment
(a) Reporting Period. Payments
received by the Commissioner shall
be applied to the reporting period
specified on the remittance return
accompanying payment. If a payment
is not accompanied by a remittance
return or the payment exceeds the
amount due as reported by the accompanying return or calculated by the
Commissioner, then the payment, or
the remainder thereof, shall be
applied to the earliest reporting period in which a balance is due and outstanding from the person remitting
the payment and shall be allocated as
provided by division (b) of this section.
(b) Allocation. Payments received
by the Commissioner shall first be
allocated to balances of tax due. After
all tax balances owed by the person
remitting payment are paid, any
remaining payment amount shall be
allocated to interest balances due.
After all interest balances owed by
the person remitting payment are
paid, any remaining payment amount
shall be allocated to penalty balances
due.
(c) Payment in Excess of Amount
Due. Any payment in excess of the
total balance of tax, interest, and
penalties due for all reporting periods
reported by the person remitting payment shall be applied as a credit payment to the next reporting period,
unless the person making the payment files a request for refund in
accordance with this chapter.
Section 195.07 Time Allowed for
Receipt
(a) Due Date. Any filing required
by this chapter must be received by
the date specified by the provision or
regulation requiring such action. Any
filing received after the due date
shall be deemed untimely.
(b) Time of Receipt. The date of
receipt shall be the earlier of the date
physically received by the Commissioner; or the postmark date on the filing, provided such filing is physically
received by the Commissioner by the
tenth (10) day following the postmark date on the filing.
(c) Delay. No extension shall be
granted for an untimely filing,
regardless if such delay was caused
by an error of the carrier, misrouted
mail, or improperly addressed mail.
(d) Automatic Extension.
(1) Where timely receipt is a condition of compliance with any provision
of this chapter and the last day for
such receipt falls on a Saturday or

The City Record
Sunday, the last day for compliance
shall be extended to the following
Monday.
(2) Where timely receipt is a condition of compliance with any provision
of this chapter and the last day for
such receipt falls on a federal holiday
or a day that City Hall is not open for
business, the last day for compliance
shall be extended to the following
day.
Section 195.08 Refund of Tax
(a) Claim Required. Any person
claiming a refund must file a claim
with the Commissioner on forms provided by the Commissioner for that
purpose. No refund shall be allowed
for any amount paid by any person
unless such person bore the burden of
such amount and did not shift the burden to another person.
(b) Filing of Claim. A person may
file a claim for refund for any amount
of tax, interest or penalty paid by
such person in relation to any reporting period ending within the previous
three (3) years from the date of filing
a claim, provided such amount was
paid as a result of a mistake of fact or
an error of application of law, other
than an error resulting from the tax,
any of its provisions, or its application, being declared invalid or unconstitutional.
(c) Content of Claim. A claim for
refund shall be stated by reporting
period and include amended returns
for each such period along with an
explanation supporting the amended
position and amount claimed for
refund.
(d) Disposition of Claim. Where a
claim for refund is properly filed, the
Commissioner, shall examine the
same and determine the amount of
refund due, if any. Before issuing a
determination, the Commissioner
may request additional information
or conduct any investigation necessary for ascertaining the validity of
the claim. After a determination has
been made, the Commissioner shall
issue a notice of determination, granting a full or partial refund, or denying
the claim. The determination by the
Commissioner shall become final
upon the expiration of twenty (20)
days from the date notice is provided
to the claimant, unless prior thereto
the claimant files a protest in accordance with § 195.16.
(e) Amount Refunded. Any refund
granted under this section shall be
without interest and offset by any
other indebtedness of the claimant
owed to the City. If the amount
refundable is less than the amount of
any debt owed to the City, it may be
applied in partial satisfaction of the
debt. If the amount refundable is
greater than the amount of the debt
owed to the City, the amount remaining after satisfaction of the debt shall
be refunded. If the claimant has more
than one debt owed to the City, any
debt for admissions tax owed shall be
satisfied first before all others.
Section 195.09 Maintenance of
Records
(a) Record Keeping.
(1) Every person responsible for
collecting and remitting the admissions tax imposed under this chapter
shall keep separately, with respect to
each event subject to a transaction,
complete and accurate records which
shall include:
(A) Primary records including, but
not limited to, point of sale data, sales
invoices, complimentary allowances,
contracts, unissued tickets, return
ticket stubs, exemption certificates,
registrations, tax payment receipts,
and cash register tapes; and

206

February 29, 2012
(B) Secondary records including,
but not limited to, remittance returns,
federal and state tax returns, bank
deposit receipts, day books, journals,
or any other records in which accumulated data is recorded.
(2) Any secondary record in which
accumulated data is recorded by the
operator must be supported by complete primary records from which
such data was accumulated.
(3) The Commissioner is authorized to further regulate the maintenance of records and prescribe rules
as to the substance and form of all
information required to be maintained by each person.
(b) Retention of Records. Every
person responsible for collecting and
remitting admissions tax imposed
under this chapter shall retain all
records necessary to compute their
tax liability for a period of six (6)
years from latter of the date the tax
return was filed or the tax was paid;
unless the Commissioner consents, in
writing, to their destruction within
that period or by order requires that
they be kept for a longer period.
(c) Failure to Maintain Records.
Where any person responsible for collecting and remitting admissions tax
imposed under this chapter fails to
maintain adequate primary records
that may be utilized in verifying the
accuracy of the figures reflected in
secondary
records
and/or
their
reported on their tax remittance
returns, the Commissioner may identify and use information from a representative period as the basis for the
determination of the tax levied under
this chapter. The information used in
any determination may be based upon
one or more of the following: (1)
income tax records, (2) a sample of
business activity for a representative
period, (3) previous tax remittance
returns, and/or (4) any other information relating to the business activity of the person. Any determination
on the basis of a representative
reporting period, or portion thereof,
may be projected for all periods under
review for purposes of determining
the tax due for such periods.
Section 195.10 Confidential Information
(a) General Rule. Except as otherwise provided in this section, any
information required to be provided
to the Commissioner by any taxpayer
or responsible party as required by
this chapter, or revealed to the Commissioner by such person in the
course of an investigation, ruling, or
hearing, shall be confidential and no
person shall disclose such information except in compliance with a proper judicial order from a court of competent jurisdiction, or in the connection with the performance of that person’s official duties, or enforcement
of this chapter.
(b) Disclosure to Other Authorities.
The Commissioner may furnish and
exchange information obtained in the
administration of this chapter to the
Internal Revenue Service, the State
Tax Commissioner, the Central Collection Agency, or any other tax or
law enforcement authority of this
State or federal government. The
Commissioner
is
authorized
to
receive information from any authority to which he is authorized to furnish
information to under this division.
(c) Disclosure to Responsible Parties. The Commissioner may disclose
any information to any responsible
party charged with liability under
Section 195.041 for the purpose of monitoring and discharging their obligations thereunder, including, but not

February 29, 2012
limited to, providing certificates of
registration, tax returns, notices of
deficiency, or any other notice regarding compliance under this chapter.
(d) Disclosure in the Course of Proceedings. The Commissioner may disclose information in the course of any
proceeding or action to enforce this
chapter or collect taxes assessed by
the Commissioner hereunder.
(e) Certificates of Registration.
Any certificate of registration issued
by the Commissioner under Section
195.2101 shall not be deemed to be confidential for purposes of this section
and may be release to any party
requesting the same.
Section 195.11 Transfer or Termination
(a) Notice of Transfer Required.
(1) Any venue operator having a
transfer of fifty percent (50%) or
more of its ownership, or any substantial part of the operations or assets of
such venue, must file a notice of
transfer with the Commissioner at
least forty-five (45) days prior to the
date of such transfer, setting forth the
legal name and address of the transferor, legal name and address of the
transferee, date of transfer, description of the venue operations or assets
being transferred, the amount of the
transfer price, and any such other
information as the Commissioner may
require.
(2) Within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the transfer notice required
in division (a)(1), the Commissioner
will issue a statement of account as
provided in division (e) to both the
transferor and transferee. The transferee shall withhold the amount due
from the transfer price and remit the
same to the Commissioner.
(A) If the transferee fails to withhold and remit the amount shown on
the statement of account, such transferee shall be jointly and severally
liable for all amounts indicated on the
statement of account up to the fair
market value of the consideration
transferred, or the transfer price,
whichever is greater.
(B) Any amount due on the basis of
division (a)(2)(A) of this section
shall constitute a lien on the property
being transferred.
(C) The transferee shall be relieved
of any duty to withhold from the
transfer price and shall have no transfer-liability for taxes, interest, or
penalties due hereunder from the
transferor if the Commissioner fails
to issue a statement of account within
thirty (30) days of receipt of the
notice of transfer.
(D) Nothing in this section shall be
construed to relieve the transferor of
its liability for taxes, interest, and
penalties except that any payments
received from the transferee as provided in this chapter shall reduce
such liability payable to the Commissioner.
(3) Within twenty (20) days from
the transfer date, the transferor shall
file a remittance return and pay any
tax due in accordance with division
(f).
(b)
Notice
of
Termination
Required.
(1) Any venue operator who
intends to cease operating a venue
within the City or dispose of a majority of the assets of such venue, must
file a notice of such termination with
the Commissioner at least forty-five
(45) days prior to the date of termination, setting forth the legal name and
address of the venue operator, a
description of the operations being
terminated, the date of termination,
and such other information as the

The City Record
Commissioner may require.
(2) Within twenty (20) days from
the termination date, the venue operator shall file a remittance return and
pay any tax due in accordance with
division (f).
(c) Notice of Change of Venue
Owner Required.
(1) Any transferee of property used
as a place shall file a notice of change
with the Commissioner at least fortyfive (45) days prior to the date of such
transfer, setting forth the legal name
and address of the transferor, legal
name and address of the transferee,
date of transfer, description of the
real property, and any such other
information as the Commissioner may
require.
(2) Within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the transfer notice required
in division (c)(1) of this section, the
Commissioner will issue a statement
of account as provided in division (e)
to both the transferor and transferee.
The transferee shall be required to
withhold the amount due from the
transfer price and remit the same to
the Commissioner.
(A) If the transferee fails to withhold and remit the amount shown on
the statement of account, such transferee shall be jointly and severally
liable for all amounts indicated on the
statement of account up to the fair
market value of the property transferred, or the transfer price, whichever is greater.
(B) Any amount due on the basis of
division (c)(2)(A) of this section
shall constitute a lien on the property
being transferred.
(C) The transferee shall be relieved
of any duty to withhold from the
transfer price and shall have no transfer-liability for taxes, interest, or
penalties due hereunder from the
transferor if the Commissioner fails
to issue a statement of account within
thirty (30) days of receipt of the
notice of change.
(D) Nothing in this section shall be
construed to relieve the transferor of
its liability for taxes, interest, and
penalties except that any payments
received from the transferee as provided in this chapter shall reduce
such liability payable to the Commissioner.
(d) Notice of Change of Fiscal Officer. Any person serving as a fiscal
officer for any person responsible for
the collection and remittance of tax
under this chapter may, upon termination of its services to such person,
file a notice of change with the Commissioner. Such notice shall serve to
limit any personal liability that may
be imposed under this chapter for
reporting periods beginning after the
effective date of the notice.
(e) Statement of Account. When
required by this chapter or upon any
other proper request, the Commissioner shall issue a statement of account
for a requested venue operator, which
shall include all taxes, interest, and
penalties due as of the close of the
previous reporting period.
(f) Final Reporting Period. A final
reporting period shall be any partial
reporting period resulting from the
transfer or termination of a venue.
Such period shall begin the day following the close of the last reporting
period and shall close on the date of
transfer or termination, inclusive.
The remittance return for a final
reporting period shall be due by the
twentieth (20) day following the
close of such period and be in a form
as any other remittance return to be
filed, except that it shall indicate
”Final Report Period” across the top
of the first page.

207

9
Section 195.12 Assessment of Tax
(a) Commissioner Shall Make
The
Commissioner
Assessments.
shall determine and assess all deficiencies of tax, interest, and penalties
due from any person charged with liability for such amounts under this
chapter. The Commissioner shall
enforce payment of all admissions tax
due and owing to the City.
(b) Evidence and Use of Estimates.
The Commissioner may use all available information in determining an
Information
derived
assessment.
from a limited period of time or volume may be used to estimate data for
a larger period of time or volume.
Such information used in estimations
may be derived from sources relating
to the operator being assessed or one
or more other operators. The lack of
admissibility under any applicable
rules of evidence shall not bar such
use of information in the determination of an assessment.
(c) Notice of Deficiency. The Commissioner shall serve notice on the
person being assessed, communicating his determination and assessment
and shall include a demand for all
taxes, interest, and penalties that are
due and unpaid. The assessment by
the Commissioner shall become final
upon the expiration of twenty (20)
days from the date notice is issued to
the person, unless prior thereto the
person files a protest in accordance
with Section 195.16.
(d) Multiple Assessments Permitted. The Commissioner may concurrently assess any persons who have,
by reason of an act or omission or by
operation of law, become liable for
the payment of any taxes, interest, or
penalties which were not originally
incurred by that person. The amount
of recovery from such persons shall
be limited to the total deficiency due.
(e) Application of Penalties and
Interest. Penalties and interest shall
accrue from the date the taxes
assessed should have been paid as
required by this chapter. A protest
and/or appeal of the Commissioner’s
assessment shall not toll the application and accrual of penalties and
interest.
Section 195.13 Penalties
(a) Failure to File.
(1) A penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due for the reporting period
shall be assessed for each month, or
portion thereof, that the required
remittance return for that reporting
period is not filed after becoming due,
up to a maximum penalty of twentyfive percent (25%) of the tax due for
that reporting period.
(2) For purposes of this section, the
tax due for the reporting period shall
be the amount of tax that should have
been reported, without deduction for
any payments for the reporting period
that were paid in advance of the filing of the return required for that
reporting period.
(b) Failure to Pay. A penalty of one
and one-half percent (1.5%) of the
amount of tax remaining unpaid after
becoming due shall be assessed for
each month, or portion thereof, that
such tax is not paid in full.
(c) Timing of Penalty. Any penalty
assessed by this section shall be first
applied on the first day the remittance return or tax becomes past due
and on every first day of every subsequent month thereafter.
(d) Penalties Not Compounded.
Penalty amounts due under this section shall not be compounded by
adding any such penalty to the balance of the unpaid tax due.

10
(e) Penalties Not Applied to Interest. Penalties assessed under this section shall not apply to the portion of
the unpaid balance comprised of accumulated interest assessed under this
chapter.
Section 195.14 Interest
(a) Interest on Unpaid Balances.
Any unpaid balance due, including all
tax and accumulated interest, shall
accrue interest on a monthly basis
until paid in full.
(b) Rate. The monthly rate of interest shall be one percent (1%).
(c) Calculating Interest. Interest
shall be assessed on the twenty first
(21st) day of each month by multiplying the unpaid balance due by the
monthly interest rate. Interest shall
be compounded monthly by adding
the monthly interest previously
assessed to the unpaid balance due as
accumulated interest.
(d) Interest Additional to Penalties. Interest assessed under this section is in addition to any other penalty amount imposed under this chapter.
Section 195.15 Burden of Proof
Any determination and assessment
made by the Commissioner shall be
prima facie correct and the person so
assessed shall have the burden of
proof with respect to any factual
issue relevant to the determination of
liability imposed by this chapter.
Section 195.16 Appeals
(a) Protest and Hearing.
(1) A person served with a notice of
deficiency or determination may file
a written protest with the Commissioner and request a hearing on the
same. Upon timely receipt of a
protest, the Commissioner shall fix
the time and place for a hearing and
shall notify the petitioner thereof,
giving notice to the person of not less
than seven (7) days. The Commissioner shall hear evidence and testimony
presented by the petitioner and may
amend, vacate, or affirm the original
determination.
(2) At any hearing held as provided
under this section, the determination
and assessment by the Commissioner
shall be prima facie correct and the
burden shall be on the petitioner to
prove otherwise.
(3) The Commissioner may prescribe rules and regulations governing the form and procedure for
protests and hearings.
(4) The decision of the Commissioner shall become final upon issuance
and may be appealed within (20) days
from the date the decision was issued
by filing a notice of appeal with the
Board in accordance with division (b)
of this section.
(b) Review by Board.
(1) Any decision of the Commissioner may be appealed by timely filing an appeal to the Board of Review.
The Board shall, on hearing, have
jurisdiction to affirm, reverse or modify any such ruling or decision
appealed from, or any part thereof, in
conformity with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(2) An appeal shall be perfected by
providing a written notice of appeal
to the Commissioner within the time
allowed, which shall state, with specificity, the matters subject of the
appeal. The Commissioner shall
transmit the notice of appeal, and a
copy of the determination being
appealed from, to the secretary of the
Board of Review, who will docket the
matter for a hearing within forty-five
(45) days.

The City Record
(3) After conducting a hearing, the
Board of Review shall render a decision within forty-five (45) days,
which shall be final. Any decision of
the Board may be appealed by the
Commissioner or any proper party,
under Revised Code Chapter 2506 or
as otherwise provided by law within
thirty (30) days from the date of the
Board’s decision.
Section
195.17
Commissioner’s
Authority
(a) Rulemaking. The Commissioner is empowered to adopt, promulgate,
and enforce rules and regulations
relating to any matter pertaining to
the administration and enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, provisions relating to transactions and
record keeping. Rules and regulations shall be effective upon publication in the City Record or at a later
date specified by the Commissioner.
(b) Rulings. The Commissioner is
empowered to hear requests for rulings on the application of the provisions of this chapter and the rules and
regulations promulgated hereunder
and to render a decision on the same.
Such rulings will be at the discretion
of the Commissioner and binding only
with respect to the party requesting
the ruling. Any entity may request a
ruling upon application and payment
of an administrative fee to be prescribed by the Commissioner.
(c) Investigations. The Commissioner is empowered to conduct investigations relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter.
(d) Subpoena Power. The Commissioner is empowered to compel the
production of books, papers, records
and other information and the attendance of all persons before him,
whether as parties or witnesses,
whenever he believes such persons
have knowledge pertinent to any
inquiry of any tax paid, charged, collected or received or required to have
been charged, collected or received.
The Commissioner is empowered to
examine any person appearing before
him under oath, concerning any transaction which was or should have been
reported for any purpose under this
chapter or any activity or occurrence
tending to affect the tax levied under
this chapter. All costs of production
shall be borne by the respondent.
(e) Access to Records.
(1) Any person responsible for the
collection of tax under this chapter
shall provide the Commissioner
and/or his designated agent access to
all records and evidence at all reasonable times and shall provide verification or authentication of the same, as
the Commissioner may require.
(2) Any person responsible for the
collection of tax under this chapter is
required to provide to the Commissioner and/or his designated agent
the means, facilities and opportunity
to conduct any examination or investigation upon reasonable notice.
(3) The Commissioner and/or his
designated agent are authorized to
examine the books, bank statements,
deposit slips, third-party statements,
papers and other records of any person responsible for the collection of
tax under this chapter in order to verify the accuracy of any return made,
or, if no return has been made, to
determine compliance with this chapter and any tax due hereunder.
(f) Authority Not Limited. No
authority granted to the Commissioner by any other provision of this chap-

208

February 29, 2012
ter shall be limited by virtue of not
being included in this section.
(g) Abatement of Penalties. Upon
good cause, the Commissioner may
waive penalties otherwise owing
under divisions (a) and (b) of Section
195.13. Such waiver may be contingent upon such conditions as the Commissioner may require to ensure compliance with this chapter. Any decision to waive or not waive any penalty imposed by this chapter shall not
bind the Commissioner in any other
case or be considered precedent to
compel a decision for any other matter.
Section 195.18 Enforcement
(a) Suit Authorized. Upon an
assessment becoming final and after
the expiration of time for all proper
appeals, the Director of Law shall, by
request of the Commissioner on
behalf of the City, bring or cause to be
brought an action to enforce the payment of the assessment in any court
of competent jurisdiction against any
party liable for payment.
(b) Assessments Collectable as
Other Debts. All final assessments no
longer subject to appeal shall be collectible as any other debts owed to the
City.
(c) Revocation of License. Upon an
assessment becoming final and after
the expiration of time for all proper
appeals, the Commissioner may, at
his discretion, revoke any license or
permit granted by the Commissioner
under the codified ordinances to a
venue operator responsible for the
payment of such assessment upon
seven (7) days notice to the holder.
(d) Lien Authorized. A final assessment no longer subject to appeal may
be reduced to a lien on all real and/or
personal property of any person
responsible for the payment of tax
under the final assessment.
(e) Offset Authorized. Any credit,
refund or other money due to be paid
by the City or any division thereof, to
a person who is liable for the payment
of a final assessment shall be offset
by such debt owed to the City and
paid to the Commissioner in satisfaction of the same.
(f) Enforcement Not Limited.
(1) No authority granted to the
Commissioner or any other officer of
the City by any other provision of the
codified ordinances shall be limited
by virtue of not being included in this
section.
(2) Remedies available to the Commissioner for the enforcement of this
chapter shall not be limited by virtue
of not being included in this section.
(3) The exercise of one form of remedy by the Commissioner shall not
preclude the concurrent or successive
use of another remedy.
Section 195.19 Notice
(a) Method.
(1) Unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, whenever notice is
required, such notice shall be given
by United States Certified Mail,
addressed to the person concerned at
his last known address, and proof of
such mailing shall be sufficient for
the purposes of notice under this
chapter.
(2) If the method of delivery in division (a)(1) of this section is returned
or refused, notice shall be given by
United
States
First-Class
Mail,
addressed to the person concerned at
his last known address, and proof of
such mailing shall be sufficient for
the purposes of notice under this
chapter.
(3) Notice served upon a venue
owner shall be deemed sufficient

February 29, 2012
where such notice is delivered to the
primary owner at the property
address designated on the records of
the Cuyahoga County Fiscal Officer
pertaining to such venue owner.
(b) Time for Hearing. Notice of any
hearing provided for by this chapter
shall be given not less than seven (7)
days prior to the date fixed for hearing. All hearings provided for in this
chapter shall be at a location determined by the Commissioner.
Section 195.20 Statute of Limitations
(a) Assessment of Tax.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in
this section, an assessment shall be
issued within three (3) years from the
date the return was due or the date
the return was filed, whichever is
later.
(2) Where any person underreports
more than twenty-five percent (25%)
of the total tax due, an assessment
shall be issued within six (6) years
from the date the return was due or
the date the return was filed,
whichever is later.
(3) No limitation in the time for
assessment of taxes and associated
interest and penalties shall apply in
the case of a false or fraudulent
return.
(4) An amended return filed under
division (a)(3) of Section 195.05 shall
not extend the time provided by any
provision of this section.
(b) Offenses.
(1) Except as so provided in division (b)(2), prosecutions for an
offense made punishable under this
chapter shall be commenced within
three (3) years after commission of
the offense.
(2) Prosecutions for an offense
made punishable under this chapter
relating to the willful failure to pay
any tax due or file a required return
or attempt to evade the application of
the tax shall be commenced within
six (6) years after the commission of
the offense.
(c) Collection. Any action or suit
for collection of taxes assessed shall
be commenced within ten (10) years
from the date of assessment.
(d) Persons Other than the Taxpayer. The time allowed for any action
against a person liable for the payment of any tax, interest, or penalty
other than the taxpayer shall be the
same as in the case such action was
being taken against the taxpayer.
Section 195.2101 Venue Registration
(a) Certificate of Registration
Required. Any venue operator, prior
to the issuance of tickets for an event
conducted at its venue, shall make
application to the Commissioner and
obtain a certificate of registration. No
venue owner shall allow any venue to
operate at its place without first
obtaining an official duplicate of the
venue operator’s certificate of registration. The Commissioner may provide an official duplicate directly to
the venue owner upon issuance of a
certificate of registration.
(b) Application and Fee. The Commissioner shall prescribe forms and
require information as he deems necessary for the application required
under this division. The applicant
shall pay a fee of seventy-five dollars
($75.00) for an annual registration
and twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for a
temporary registration.
(c) Term and Expiration. An annual certificate of registration shall be
valid upon issuance and expire on
December 31st of the year issued. A
temporary registration shall be valid

The City Record
for a period not longer than ten (10)
days from the date designated on the
certificate issued.
(d) Display Required. The certificate of registration issued by the
Commissioner or a copy thereof, shall
be displayed in a conspicuous place in
each ticket or box office located at the
venue where tickets are sold or at the
main entrance of a venue if tickets
are not sold at the venue.
(e) Estimated Tax Due for Temporary Registration. Any venue operator applying for a temporary certificate of registration shall deposit with
the Commissioner a payment of an
estimated tax equal to the amount of
tax that would otherwise be due upon
admission fees charged for ten percent (10%) of the venue capacity at
the established value of the lowest
ticket price offered for sale. The estimated tax due under this division
shall be credited to the venue operator’s tax account and applied to the
actual tax due, if any, with the excess
being refunded to the operator within
a reasonable time after the required
remittance return is filed with the
Commissioner.
Section 195.2102 Issuance of Tickets
(a) Issuance of Tickets Required.
No person shall charge an admission
fee without issuing a ticket to the purchaser.
(b) Information Required on Ticket. Each ticket issued as required by
this section shall contain the (1) price
of the ticket, (2) name of event, (3)
date of event, (4) place of event, and
(5) terms and conditions of the
license granted, or an incorporating
reference thereto if not printed upon
the ticket.
(c) Required Notice in License
Terms. Any ticket issued by a venue
within the City shall contain the following notice provision in the terms
and conditions governing the license
granted by the issuer: “The purchase
and subsequent sale of this ticket
may be subject to admissions tax
under Chapter 195 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976
(“CCO Ch. 195”), and by such purchase
and/or sale you agree to abide by the
provisions of CCO Ch. 195 and consent
to the jurisdiction of the City of Cleveland, Ohio for the limited purpose of
determining compliance with CCO Ch.
195 and the enforcement thereof.”
Section 195.99 Violations
(a) Offenses. It shall be a violation
of this chapter if any person charged
with the duty of collecting and/or
remitting the tax imposed:
(1) fails to timely file a required
remittance return;
(2) fails to timely pay taxes due;
(3) files a false or frivolous return;
(4) attempts to evade the application of the tax;
(5) fails to perform any duty
imposed by this chapter;
(6) fails to comply with any provision of this chapter;
(7) knowingly makes a false statement on any return, or in the course of
a hearing, or investigation conducted
by the Commissioner or his designated agent;
(8) fails to comply with an investigation or subpoena of the Commissioner;
(9) denies the lawful request of the
Commissioner for access to records;
(10) fails to obtain a certificate of
registration under Section 195.2101; or
(11) sells an admission ticket on
which the name of the vendor and
price is not printed, stamped, or written in accordance with Section
195.2102; or

209

11
(12) fails to provide the information required under Section 195.2102
upon a ticket for sale.
(b) Penalty.
(1) Except as provided by division
(b)(2) of this section, any person
found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this chapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. A
separate and distinct offense shall be
regarded as committed each day on
which said person shall commit any
such violation or after notification
thereof permits any such violation to
exist.
(2) Any person found guilty of failing to: (A) obtain a certificate of registration under Section 195.2101, (B)
post the certificate of registration as
required under Section 195.2101, or
(C) provide the venue information on
a ticket for sale as required under Section 195.2102, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate and distinct
offense shall be regarded as committed each day on which said person
shall commit any such violation or
after notification thereof permits any
such violation to exist.
(c) Intent. For purposes of this
chapter, any violation that does not
specify a culpable mental state or
intent shall be one of strict liability
and no culpable mental state or intent
shall be required for a person to be
guilty of such violation.
Section 3. That it is declared to be
the intention of Council that if any
sentence, clause, section or part of
this ordinance is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall affect only such clause,
sentence, section or part of this ordinance so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or
other parts of this ordinance and that
this ordinance would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional,
illegal or invalid sentence, clause,
section or part thereof not been
included.
Section 4. That this ordinance shall
be effective May 1, 2012.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 203-12.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to procure fire and
extended real and personal property
insurance, including oil testing and
other risk management services, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power’s major facilities, including
1300 Lakeside Avenue and to assist
with procurements in 2013 and later,
for a period of two years with a oneyear option to renew or for a period of one year with two one-year
options to renew, options exercisable by the Director of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

12
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to procure fire and
extended real and personal property
insurance, including oil testing and
other risk management services, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power’s major facilities, including
1300 Lakeside Avenue, for a period
of two years with a one-year option
to renew exercisable by the Director of Public Utilities, or for a period of one year with two one-year
options to renew exercisable by the
Director of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to assist
with insurance procurements in 2013
and later, for a period of two years
with a one-year option to renew exercisable by the Director of Public Utilities, or for a period of one year with
two one-year options to renew exercisable by the Director of Public Utilities.
Section 3. The selection of the consultants for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Public
Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation to
be paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract
or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Utilities, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 4. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 58 SF 001, Request
No. RQS 2004, RL 2012-17.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 204-12.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
exercise the first option to renew
Contract No. 69918 with AVI Food
Systems, Inc. to provide for the operation of soft drinks, candy, snacks,
and
other
vending
machines
throughout various city-owned and
City-leased buildings; and to amend
Contract No. 69918 to change certain
terms of the contract.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 98-09, passed February 2, 2009, the Director of Public
Works entered into Contract No.

The City Record
69918 with AVI Food Systems, Inc.
to provide for the operation of soft
drinks, candy, snacks, and other
vending machines throughout various
city-owned
and
City-leased
buildings; and
Whereas,
Ordinance
No.
98-09
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, the Department of Public Works and AVI Food Systems,
Inc. have agreed to make changes
to Contract No. 69918 concerning
mutually beneficial changes; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Works is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 69918 with AVI food Systems, Inc. for an additional year to
provide for the operation of soft
drinks, candy, snacks, and other
vending machines throughout various city-owned and city-leased buildings.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
an amendment to Contract No. 69918
with AVI Food Systems, Inc. requiring that, beginning with the option
term, vending machines will be
stocked with 100% healthy products
and deleting the minimum concession
fee guaranteed by the concessionaire.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 205-12.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the ASPCA for the ASPCA Partnership Grant Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $23,350.00,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term from the ASPCA to conduct the
ASPCA Partnership Grant Program;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the application
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at a public
hearing on this legislation and set
forth in File No. 205-12-A, is made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, is approved in all respects,
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.

210

February 29, 2012
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(B) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Safety may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 206-12.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Domestic Violence & Child Advocacy Center for the FY 2011 OVW
Education Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $60,000.00,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term, from the Domestic Violence &
Child Advocacy Center for the FY
2011 OVW Education Program; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the budget detail worksheet for the grant contained in the
file described below.
Section 2. That the budget detail
worksheet for the grant, presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at a public hearing on this legislation and set forth in File No. 206-12-A,
is made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, is approved in all
respects, and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Safety may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or

February 29, 2012
funds to which are credited any grant
funds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
ed to Directors of Public Safety,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 207-12.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Office of Criminal Justice
Services for the 2012 Ohio Drug Law
Enforcement Fund Grant (FY 2011);
and authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies or entities to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $250,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the Ohio Office of Criminal
Justice Services to conduct the 2012
Ohio Drug Law Enforcement Fund
Grant (FY 2011); that the Director
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
subgrant application for the grant
contained
in
the
file
described
below.
Section 2. That the subgrant application for the grant, presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
a public hearing on this legislation
and set forth in File No. 207-12-A, is
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds in the
amount of $83,334 from Fund Nos. 10
SF 025, 10 SF 027, and 10 SF 049, is
approved in all respects, and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with or make
payments to agencies or entities to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 5. That, unless expressly
prohibited by the grant agreement,
under Section 108(b) of the Charter,
purchases made under the grant
agreement may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Public Safety may sign all documents and do all things that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process. The contracts will be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited any grant
funds accepted under this ordinance.

The City Record
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 208-12.
By Council Members Conwell,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 413.031 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 281-09,
passed March 9, 2009, relating to the
use of automated cameras to impose
civil penalties upon red light and
speeding violators.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 413.031 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 281-09, passed March
9, 2009, is amended to read as follows:
Section 413.031 Use of Automated
Cameras to Impose Civil Penalties
upon Red Light and Speeding Violators
(a) Civil Enforcement System
Established. The City of Cleveland
hereby adopts a civil enforcement
system for red light and speeding
offenders photographed by means of
an ”automated traffic enforcement
camera system” as defined in division
(p). This civil enforcement system
imposes monetary liability on the
”owner” of a vehicle as defined in division (p) for failure of an operator to
stop at a traffic signal displaying a
steady red light indication or for the
failure of an operator to comply with
a speed limitation.
(b) Red Light Offense – Liability
Imposed. The owner of a vehicle shall
be liable for the penalty imposed
under this section if the vehicle crosses a marked stop line or the intersection plane at a system location when
the traffic signal for that vehicle’s
direction is emitting a steady red
light.
(c) Speeding Offense – Liability
Imposed. The owner of a vehicle shall
be liable for the penalty imposed
under this section if the vehicle is
operated at a speed in excess of the
limitations set forth in Section 433.03.
(d) Liability Does Not Constitute a
Conviction. The imposition of liability under this section shall not be
deemed a conviction for any purpose
and shall not be made part of the operating record of any person on whom
the liability is imposed.
(e) Other Offenses and Penalties
Not Abrogated. Nothing in this section shall be construed as altering or
limiting Sections 433.03 or 413.03 of
these Codified Ordinances, the criminal penalties imposed by those sections, or the ability of a police officer
to enforce those sections against any
offender observed by the officer violating either of those sections. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to limit the liability of an operator of
a vehicle for any violation of division
(b) or (c) of this section.

211

13
(f) Selection of Camera Sites. The
selection of the sites where automated cameras are placed and the
enforcement of this ordinance shall
be made on the basis of sound professional traffic engineering and law
enforcement judgments. Automated
cameras shall not be placed at any
site where the speed restrictions or
the timing of the traffic signal fail to
conform to sound professional traffic
engineering principles.
(g) Locations. The following are
the locations for the Automated Traffic Enforcement Camera System:
Locations
Shaker Boulevard at Shaker Square
Chester Avenue at Euclid Avenue
West Boulevard at North Marginal
Road
Shaker Boulevard at East 116th
Street
West Boulevard at I-90 Ramp
Chester Avenue at East 71st Street
East 55th Street at Carnegie
Avenue
Woodland Avenue in the 4500 to
4700 block
East 131st Street at Harvard
Avenue
Carnegie Avenue at East 30th
Street
Cedar Avenue at Murray Hill Road
Grayton Road at I-480 Ramp
Euclid Avenue at Mayfield Road
Warren Road at I-90 Ramp
Prospect Avenue at East 40th Street
East 116th Street at Union Avenue
Pearl Road at Biddulph Road
Carnegie Avenue at East 100th
Street
Carnegie Avenue at Martin Luther
King Jr. Drive
Memphis Avenue at Fulton Road
Lakeshore Boulevard at East 159th
Street
St. Clair Avenue at London Road
Clifton Boulevard between West
110th Street and West 104th Street
Chester Avenue between East 55th
Street and East 40th Street
Woodland Avenue between East
66th Street and East 71st Street
West Boulevard between I-90 Ramp
and Madison Avenue
Lee Road between Tarkington
Avenue and I-480 Ramp
I-90 and West 41st Street
I-90 and West 44th Street
The Director of Public Safety shall
cause the general public to be notified
by means of a press release issued at
least thirty days before any given
camera is made fully-operational and
is used to issue tickets to offenders.
Before a given camera issues actual
tickets, there shall be a period of at
least two weeks, which may run concurrently with the 30-day publicnotice period, during which only
”warning” notices shall be issued.
At each site of a red light or fixed
speed camera, the Director of Public
Works shall cause signs to be posted
to
apprise
ordinarily
observant
motorists that they are approaching
an area where an automated camera
is monitoring for red light or speed
violators. Mobile speed units shall be
plainly marked vehicles.
(h) Notices of Liability. Any ticket
for an automated red light or speeding system violation under this section shall:
(1) Be reviewed by a Cleveland
police officer;
(2) Be forwarded by first-class mail
or personal service to the vehicle’s
registered owner’s address as given
on the state’s motor vehicle registration, and
(3) Clearly state the manner in
which the violation may be appealed.

14
(i) Penalties. Any violation of division (b) or division (c) of this section
shall be deemed a noncriminal violation for which a civil penalty shall be
assessed and for which no points
authorized by RC 4507.021 (”Point system for license suspension”) shall be
assigned to the owner or driver of the
vehicle.
(j) Ticket Evaluation, Public Service, and Appeals. The program shall
include a fair and sound ticket-evaluation process that includes review by
the vendor and a police officer, a
strong customer-service commitment,
and an appeals process that accords
due process to the ticket respondent
and that conforms to the requirements of the Ohio Revised Code.
(k) Appeals. A notice of appeal
shall be filed with the Hearing Officer within twenty-one (21) days from
the date listed on the ticket. The failure to give notice of appeal or pay the
civil penalty within this time period
shall constitute a waiver of the right
to contest the ticket and shall be considered an admission.
Appeals shall be heard by the Parking Violations Bureau through an
administrative process established by
the Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal
Court. At hearings, the strict rules of
evidence applicable to courts of law
shall not apply. The contents of the
ticket shall constitute a prima facie
evidence of the facts it contains. Liability may be found by the hearing
examiner based upon a preponderance of the evidence. If a finding of
liability is appealed, the record of the
case shall include the order of the
Parking Violations Bureau, the Ticket, other evidence submitted by the
respondent or the City of Cleveland,
and a transcript or record of the hearing, in a written or electronic form
acceptable to the court to which the
case is appealed.
Liability shall not be found where
the evidence shows that the automated camera captured an event is not an
offense, including each of the following events and such others as may be
established by rules and regulations
issued by the Director of Public Safety under the authority of division (n)
of this section:
(1) The motorist stops in time to
avoid violating a red light indication;
(2) The motorist proceeds through
a red light indication as part of funeral procession;
(3) The motorist is operating a
City-owned emergency vehicle with
its emergency lights activated and
proceeds through a red light indication or exceeds the posted speed limitation;
(4) The motorist is directed by a
police officer on the scene contrary to
the traffic signal indication.
Liability shall also be excused if a
vehicle is observed committing an
offense where the vehicle was stolen
prior to the offense and the owner has
filed a police report.
The Director of Public Safety, in
coordination with the Parking Violations Bureau, shall establish a
process by which a vehicle owner who
was not the driver at the time of the
alleged offense may, by affidavit,
name the person who the owner
believes was driving the vehicle at
the time. Upon receipt of such an affidavit timely submitted to the Parking
Violations Bureau, the Bureau shall
suspend further action against the
owner of the vehicle and instead
direct notices and collection efforts to
the person identified in the affidavit.
If the person named in the affidavit,
when notified, denies being the driver
or denies liability, then the Parking

The City Record

February 29, 2012

Violations Bureau shall resume the
notice and collection process against
the vehicle owner, the same as if no
affidavit had been submitted, and if
the violation is found to have been
committed by a preponderance of evidence, the owner shall be liable for
any penalties imposed for the offense.
A decision in favor of the City of
Cleveland may be enforced by means
of a civil action or any other means
provided by the Ohio Revised Code.
(l) Evidence of Operation. It is
prima facie evidence that the person
registered as the owner of the vehicle
with the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles, or with any other State vehicle
registration office, or in the case of a
leased or rented vehicle. the ”lessee”
as defined in division (p), was operating the vehicle at the time of the
offenses set out in divisions (b) and
(c) of this section.
(m) Program Oversight. The Director of Public Safety shall oversee the
program authorized by this section.
The Director of Public Works shall
oversee the installation and maintenance of all automated cameras. An
encroachment permit shall be authorized in the legislation in which locations are selected.
(n) Rules and Regulations. The
Director of Public Safety may issue
rules and regulations to carry out the
provisions of these sections, which
shall be effective thirty (30) days
after publication in the City Record.
(o) Establishment of Penalty. The
penalty imposed for a violation of
division (b) or (c) of this section shall
be follows:
413.031(b)  
All violations

$100.00

13.031(c)  
Up to 24 mph over the speed limit:
$100.00
25 mph or more over the speed limit:
$200.00
Any violation of a school or construction zone speed limit:
$200.00
Late penalties: for both offenses, if
the penalty is not paid within 20 days
from the date of mailing of the ticket
to the offender, an additional $20.00
shall be imposed, and if not paid with
40 days from that date, another $40.00
shall be imposed, for a total additional penalty in such a case of $60.00.
(p) Definitions. As used in this section:
(1) ”Automated traffic enforcement
camera system” means an electronic
system consisting of a photographic,
video, or electronic camera and a
vehicle sensor installed to work alone
or in conjunction with an official traffic controller and to automatically
produce photographs, video, or digital
images of each vehicle violating divisions (b) or (c).
(2) ”Lessee” includes renter and
means:
A. the person identified as a vehicle
lessee or renter by a motor vehicle
leasing dealer or motor vehicle renting dealer pursuant to RC 4511.092
and further identified by the dealer as
the person having care, custody or
control of the vehicle at the time of a
violation of divisions (b) or (c); or
B. the person identified as the
lessee or as an additional owner of a
vehicle in the records of the Ohio
Bureau of Motor Vehicles or the
records of any other State motor vehicle bureau.

212

(3) ”System location” means the
approach to an intersection or a street
toward which a photographic, video
or electronic camera is directed and is
in operation. It is the location where
the automated camera system is
installed to monitor offenses under
this section.
(4) ”Vehicle owner” or ”owner”
means the person or entity identified
by the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles,
or registered with any other State
vehicle registration office, as the registered owner of a vehicle, or in the
case of a leased or rented vehicle, the
”lessee”.
Section 2. That existing Section
413.031 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 281-09, passed March 9,
2009, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 209-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire and re-convey properties presently owned by
800 Superior, LLC, or its designee,
located at 800 Superior Avenue for
the purpose of entering into the
chain-of-title prior to the adoption of
tax increment financing legislation
authorized under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code; and authorizing
an agreement with 800 Superior,
LLC, or its designee.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire from and reconvey to 800
Superior, LLC, or its designee, for a
price of one dollar and other valuable consideration determined as
fair market value, the following
property for the purpose of entering
into the chain-of-title prior to the
adoption of tax increment financing
legislation authorized under Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code and
more fully described as follows:
Exhibit A
Description of Land
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being parts of Original
Two Acre Lots Nos. 95 and 96, bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the southeasterly line
of Superior Avenue, N.E., 132 feet
wide, at its intersection with the
southwesterly line of East 9th Street,
99 feet wide;
Course No. 1: thence South 33° 49'
40" East along said southwesterly
line of East 9th Street, 320.34 feet to
its intersection with the northwesterly line of Vincent Avenue, N.E., 56 feet
in width, as shown by the Dedication

February 29, 2012
Map in Volume 226 of Maps, Page 96 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Course No. 2: thence South 55° 58'
10" West along a northwesterly line
of Vincent Avenue N.E., 132.74 feet;
Course No. 3: thence South 67° 45'
10" West along a northwesterly line
of Vincent Avenue, N.E., 83.23 feet to a
point in the southwesterly line of land
conveyed to J.J. Sullivan by deed
dated January 31, 1900 and recorded
in Volume 754, Page 43 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Course No. 4: thence North 33° 50'
30" West along said southwesterly
line of land so conveyed to J.J. Sullivan, 163.34 feet;
Course No. 5: thence South 55° 58'
10" West, parallel with the aforementioned southeasterly line of Superior
Avenue, N.E., 18.17 feet to a point in
the southwesterly line of land conveyed to Charles D. Williams by deed
dated September 10, 1847 and recorded
in Volume 41, Page 49 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Course No. 6: thence North 33° 50'
30" West along said southwesterly
line of land so conveyed to Charles D.
Williams, 140.00 feet to a point in the
southeasterly
line
of
Superior
Avenue, N.E.,
Course No. 7: thence North 55° 58'
10" East along said southeasterly line
of Superior Avenue, N.E. 232.51 feet to
the place of beginning, containing
70,500 square feet of land (1.6185
acres), according to a survey by Garrett and Associates, Inc., Registered
Engineers and Surveyors, made in
June, 1988 and updated August, 1996,
be the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
execute on behalf of the City of Cleveland all necessary documents to
acquire and to convey the property
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, environmental audits, and
all other costs necessary for the
acquisition and sale of the properties.
Section 3. That this Council finds
that the conveyances constitute a
public purpose.
Section 4. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with 800
Superior, LLC, or its designee, which
shall include the terms and conditions
of the transaction authorized by this
ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 210-12.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance designating the Murrell-Capers House as
a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has

The City Record
proposed to designate the MurrellCapers House as a landmark; and
Whereas, the owner of the Murrell-Capers House has been properly
notified and has consented in writing to the proposed designation; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Murrell-Capers House as a landmark
and has set forth certain findings of
fact constituting the basis for its
decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Murrell-Capers
House, whose street address in the
City of Cleveland is 2380 East 40th
Street, S. E., Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number is
103-31-019, and is also known as the
following described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being the Southerfeet from front to rear of
ly 12 and
Sublot Number 259 and the Northerly
25 feet from front to rear of Sublot
Number 258 in Leonard Case’s Subdivision of part of Original Ten Acre
Lots Numbers 44, 45, 46, and 47, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
subdivision in Volume 8 of Maps,
Page 36 of Cuyahoga County Records,
said parts of Sublots Numbers 259 and
258 together forming a parcel of land
having a frontage of 37 and feet on
the Westerly side of East 40th Street
(formerly Case Avenue) and extending back between parallel lines 150
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less but subject to all
legal highways;
Description approved by Greg
Esber, Section Chief Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property having special character or special historical or aesthetic value as part of
the development, heritage, or cultural
characteristics of the City, State, or
the United States, is designated a
landmark under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 211-12.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance designating the Johnny Kilbane House as
a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas, under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Cleveland Landmarks
Commission (the “Commission”), has
proposed to designate the Johnny
Kilbane House as a landmark; and
Whereas, the owner of the Johnny Kilbane House has been proper-

213

15
ly notified and has consented in
writing to the proposed designation;
and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended designation of the Johnny Kilbane House as a landmark
and has set forth certain findings of
fact constituting the basis for its
decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Johnny Kilbane House, whose street address in
the City of Cleveland is 7413 Herman Avenue, N. W., Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent Parcel Number is 002-05-082, and is also known
as the following described property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot Number 19 in William P. Taft’s Allotment
of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Number 29, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 9 of Maps,
Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Records
and being 40 feet front on the Southerly side of Herman Avenue, N. W., and
extending back of equal width 120
feet, as appears by said plat;
Description approved by Greg
Esber, Section Chief Plats, Surveys
and House Number Section Division
of Engineering & Construction
which in its entirety is a property having special character or special historical or aesthetic value as part of
the development, heritage, or cultural
characteristics of the City, State, or
the United States, is designated a
landmark under Chapter 161 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 215-12.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 127.12 relating authorizing written standard purchase
and requirement contracts for the
purchase, lease, or lease with or
without purchase options, for various telecommunication commodities,
goods, utilities, equipment, or services, and for service-related recurring costs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 127.12 to read as follows:

The City Record

16
Section
127.12
Standard
and
Requirement Contracts for Various
Telecommunications Purposes and
Payment of Recurring Fees
(a) The Director of Finance is
authorized to enter into one or more
standard purchase or requirement
contracts for purchase, rental agreements, or leases with or without an
option to purchase when the Director
of Finance determines there is a
financial advantage, duly let to the
lowest and best bidder for various
telecommunication
commodities,
goods, utilities, equipment, or services, including but not limited to,
telephone lines, circuits, and services
necessary to update and improve
telecommunications and network
infrastructure including materials,
supplies, parts, repair, services, labor,
support, maintenance, installation,
design, circuit repair, demarcation
site relocation, and other related services.
(b) The Director of Finance is
authorized to pay on-going recurring
telecommunication-related subscription and service fees.
(c) That under Section 108(b) of the
Charter, the purchases authorized by
this section may be made through
cooperative arrangements with other
governmental agencies. The Director
of Finance may sign all documents
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
(d) Any purchase or payment made
under this section shall be made by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies and paid from the annual
appropriations made for that purpose.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.

Ord. No. 216-12.
By
Council
Members
Kelley,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 523.21 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1576-11,
passed December 5, 2011; relating to
the Cleveland Public Power energy
adjustment charge.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the rates, rules
and regulations relating to the operation of the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, for electric service, fixed
by the Board of Control by the adoption of Resolution No. _______, on
_________, are approved.
Section 2. That Section 523.21 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1576-11, passed December 5, 2011,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 523.21 Energy Adjustment
Charge
(a) An additional incremental
charge for excess fuel and power production and purchase power costs
may be applied to the rates prescribed
in Sections 523.02 to 523.065 and any
other rate schedule as may be adopted
by the City.
(b) The incremental charge shall
be based on the fuel and purchase
power cost per kilowatt hour delivered calculated under divisions
(c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c) (1) The fuel and purchase
power cost per kilowatt hour sold to
residential ratepayers shall be determined by dividing the sum of the cost
of the kilowatt hours purchased from
the Power Authority of the State of
New York and the average cost of
kilowatt hours purchased from other
sources needed to supply the residential customers by the total kilowatt
hours distributed to residential cus-

February 29, 2012
tomers. The incremental charge calculated herein shall be adjusted by
subtracting 15 mils per kilowatt hour
for residential customers who provide
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power with a certificate of reduction
of taxes obtained pursuant to the
Homestead Exemption provisions of
Sections 323.151 through 323.157 of the
Revised Code, and 9.75 mils per kilowatt hour for all other residential customers.
(2) Except as provided in Section
523.048, the fuel and purchase power
cost per kilowatt hour sold to all
ratepayers, other than residential
ratepayers, during the twelve months
of the year, shall be determined by
dividing the sum of the total cost of
coal, oil, gas and purchase power by
the total kilowatt hours distributed,
except that the computation shall
exclude the cost of PASNY power and
the amount of PASNY power allocable
to kilowatt hours distributed, and
shall exclude the costs of all purchase
power and kilowatt hours from a specific source or sources purchased by
the Division for distribution to
ratepayers pursuant to Sections
523.048 and 523.049. The incremental
charge calculated herein shall be
adjusted by subtracting 3.0 mils per
kilowatt hour.
(d) At the end of each month, the
Division of Cleveland Public Power
shall determine the excess fuel and
power charge during such month as
herein provided.
Section 3. That existing Section
523.21 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1576-11, passed December 5, 2011, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Legislation, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 212-12.
By Council Member Miller.
An ordinance changing the Use and Height Districts of land on the southwest side of Ivanhoe Road near Mandalay
Avenue to a Semi-Industry Use District and a ‘3’ Height District (Map Change Number 2383, Sheet 7).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Ivanhoe Road at its intersection with the southwesterly prolongation of the centerline
of Mandalay Avenue;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of Ivanhoe Road to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation of
the northwesterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Lsr. Realty Co., LTD by deed dated May 31, 1996 and recorded in
Auditor’s File Number V96051170005, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 11519-001;
Thence southwesterly along said northeasterly prolongation and said northwesterly line to its intersection with the
southwesterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to G.Z.T Inc., by deed dated October 4, 1990 and recorded in Auditor’s File
Number V90060910021, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 115-19-002;
Thence northwesterly along said southwesterly line to its intersection with the northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line and along its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Ivanhoe Road;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of Ivanhoe Road to its intersection with the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Semi-Industry Use District and a ‘3’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2383,
Sheet No. 7 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

214

February 29, 2012

The City Record

17

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees on City Planning.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 213-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects
to issue one or more permits to the
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and
Museum, Inc. to encroach into public rights-of-way at various locations
within the Central Business District,
by installing, using, and maintaining Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and
Museum inductee plaques and further authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to accept from the
Rock Hall the gift of materials, supplies, labor, and services preparing
the encroachment area adjacent to
Public
Hall
for
installation
of
plaques.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized, under

the conditions set forth below, to
issue one or more permits, revocable
at the will of Council, to the Rock
and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum,
Inc., 751 Erieside Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114
(“Permittee”),
to
encroach into the public rights-ofway at various locations within the
Central
Business
District,
by
installing, using, and maintaining
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and
Museum (“Rock Hall”) plaques honoring the existing inductees to the
Rock Hall and new inductees added
for the years 2012 and 2013, provided, however, that the Director shall
not issue permits for more than 280
inductees. The Director is authorized to issue immediately a permit
for approximately 22 plaques honoring
the
2012
inductees,
which
plaques shall be located in the sidewalk(s) adjacent to the Lakeside
Avenue and East Sixth Street sides
of the Public Hall. The Director is
authorized to issue thereafter one or
more permits to install, use, and
maintain not more than 258 additional plaques honoring existing
inductees and year 2013 inductees at
specifically identified locations in
the Central Business District first
expressly approved by the City
Planning Commission and the Direc-

215

tor of Capital Projects. Each permit(s)
authorized
above
shall
require the Rock Hall to agree to
expend all proceeds and revenues it
realizes or receives for or from the
plaques permitted solely for the
costs of the Rock Hall inductions
held triennially in Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
gratefully from the Rock and Roll
Hall of Fame and Museum, Inc., as a
gift to the City, the materials, supplies, and labor necessary to improve
and/or prepare the encroachment
area for installation of the year 2012
inductees’ plaques in the sidewalk(s)
adjacent to the Lakeside Avenue and
East Sixth Street sides of Public Hall.
The Director is further authorized to
issue all licenses or permits, to file all
papers and to execute all documents
necessary to receive the above-authorized gift for the purposes identified
in this ordinance.
Section 3. That Permittee may
assign the permits only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications first approved by the
Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain

The City Record

18
all other required permits, including
but not limited to Building Permits,
before installing the encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permits authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permits shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director of

February 29, 2012

Law, Permittee has properly indemnified the City against any loss that
may result from the encroachments
permitted.
Section 5. That the permits shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry to the encroachment locations.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take

effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 214-12.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to issue a permit to Detroit Shoreway
Community Development Organization to encroach into the public rights-of-way above Detroit Avenue, Herman
Avenue, West 73rd Street, and West 65th Street with up to 12 pole banners to implement the Gordon Square Arts
District, branding and public interest program to be attached to Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate permission).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization (“Permittee”), 6516 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, to encroach into the public rights-of-way above Detroit Avenue, Herman Avenue, West 73rd Street, and West
65th Street by installing, using, and maintaining up to 12 pole banners to implement the Gordon Square Arts District branding and public interest program, to be attached to Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate
permission) at the locations more fully described as follows:
LOCATION
POLE NUMBER
West 65th Street
200' north of Lawn Ave
85016
1st pole SW corner of Lawn Ave
35015
East side in front of St. Coleman sign
15' south of Hyd.
34416
3rd pole from SW corner of Herman Ave
none
Herman Avenue
2nd pole from NW corner of West 65th St
12703
1st pole from SW corner of West 65th St
none
Detroit Avenue
1st pole NE corner West 65th Street
none
1st pole NW corner West 65th Street
none
1st pole SE corner West 65th Street
none
1st pole SW corner West 65th Street
none
West 73rd Street
1st pole SW corner Herman Avenue
38067

POLE OWNER
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP (2 banners)

Section 2. That Permittee may assign the permit only with the written consent of the Director of Capital Projects. That
nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered to grant to Permittee any right, privilege, or permission to use,
or to attach or affix any object to, poles; Permittee shall obtain such permission from the respective pole owner.
Section 3. That the encroaching objects permitted by this ordinance shall conform to plans and specifications first
approved by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall incorporate such
additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, a prospective Permittee has properly indemnified the City
against any loss that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 5. That the Permit shall reserve reasonable right of entry to the encroachment locations to the City.
Section 6. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 220-12.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Annual St. Malachi
Run, on March 10, 2012, sponsored by
the Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Annual St.
Malachi Run sponsored by the Hermes Sports & Events, Inc., on March
10, 2012, with the 5 Mile Run beginning at Washington Avenue; left on
W. 25th Street; left on Detroit
Avenue; continue on W. Superior
Ave.; left on W. 9th St.; right on W.
St. Clair Ave.; left on W. 3rd St.;

216

right on Alfred Lerner Way; continue on Erieside Ave.; continue on
Marginal Rd.; left into Burke Lakefront; right on Marginal Rd.; continue on Erieside Ave.; right on
Erieside Ave.; go around Cleveland
Browns Stadium; continue on W. 3rd
St.; right on W. St. Clair Ave.; left
on W. 9th St.; right on W. Superior
Ave.; right on W. 25th St.; right on
Washington Ave.; finish on Washington Ave.; 2 Mile Run starting on
Washington Ave.; left on W. 25th St.;

February 29, 2012
left on Detroit Ave.; continue on W.
Superior Ave.; left on W. 6th St.; left
on Frankfort Ave.; left on W. 9th St.;
right on W. Superior Ave.; continue
on Detroit Ave.; right on W. 25th St.;
right on Washington Ave.; finish on
Washington Ave.; provided that the
applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit shall
further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 217-12.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit at 3101 Scranton Road and repealing Resolution
No. 1241-11, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 3101
Scranton Road by Resolution No.
1241-11 adopted by the Council on
September 12, 2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to 3101 Scranton, Inc., DBA Gas USA, 3101 Scranton Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 8917950 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1241-11, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.

The City Record
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 218-12.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of Liquor License of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 16800 Miles Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of Liquor License of a D1, D2,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
WB Holdings, Inc., Thomas G. Lobe,
Rcvr., 10510-12 Madison Avenue, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 9279410 to
Sipp & Chatt, Inc., 16800 Miles Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent
Number 8194664; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of Liquor License of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from WB
Holdings, Inc., Thomas G. Lobe,
Rcvr., 10510-12 Madison Avenue, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 9279410 to
Sipp & Chatt, Inc., 16800 Miles Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44128, Permanent
Number 8194664, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to trans-

217

19
mit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
18. Nays 0.
Res. No. 219-12.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Pruitt, Brancatelli, Dow, Cleveland,
Brady, Keane, Zone, J. Johnson,
Mitchell, Polensek, Cummins, Miller,
Kelley, Sweeney and K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution urging
the United States Congress to reconsider our national priorities, reduce
military spending, and redirect our
federal tax dollars to fund urgently
needed deficit reduction and City
and State domestic services.
Whereas, the United States is
engaged in a serious crisis and
debate about our national priorities,
international role, national debt, and
government spending; and
Whereas, Cleveland and Ohio have
been adversely affected by budget
cuts, deficit reduction, and are facing serious financial shortfalls in
the current recession with domestic
spending being the hardest hit, and
Cleveland has been forced to cut
essential services and personnel;
and
Whereas, Cleveland’s taxpayers,
even in this time of economic crisis
and fiscal austerity, are posed to
pay $518.4 million this coming year
as their share of the military budget of the United States; and
Whereas, for a similar amount of
money, all of the following could be
provided:
• 25,188 children receiving lowincome healthcare for one year, and
8016 people receiving low-income
healthcare for one year;
• 696 elementary school teachers
for one year, and 6844 Head Start slots
for children for one year;
• 20,550 households with solar photovoltaic electricity for one year, and
43,156 households with wind-power
electricity for one year;
• 5847 military veterans receiving
VA medical care for one year;
• 702 police and sheriff’s patrol
officers for one year, and 890 firefighters for one year; and
• 5430 scholarships for university
students for one year, and 8491 students receiving Pell Grants of $5550.
Whereas, U.S. troops, including
those from Cleveland and other
cities and towns across Ohio have
served
valiantly
in
Iraq
and
Afghanistan, and our troops have
made the ultimate sacrifice with
over 4,400 U.S. troops having been
killed in Iraq and over 1,140 U.S.
troops
having
been
killed
in
Afghanistan; over 39,000 U.S. troops
have been wounded in both conflicts
according to the Department of
Defense; and

20
Whereas, the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan have become controversial with the American public; and
Whereas, overall military spending is in excess of what is actually
needed
to
defend
our
country,
including the military budget of
now $670 billion per year, more than
700 United States military bases
overseas, plans to spend $185 billion
to expand and modernize the U.S.
nuclear weapons complex, weapons
systems the Pentagon doesn’t need,
and scores of other unnecessary
Pentagon programs; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
urges U.S. Senator Brown, U.S. Senator Portman, U.S. Representative
Fudge,
and
U.S.
Representative
Kucinich to oppose further funding
of the war Afghanistan and urge
them to take leadership in the Congress to bring our troops safely
home, substantially reduce overall
military spending, and redirect our
federal tax dollars to the pressing
employment,
health,
educational,
housing, nutritional, infrastructure,
energy, and environmental needs of
our city, state, and country; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
supports public discussion and dialogue about the cost of military
spending to our community, and this
Council supports a more balanced
approach to military spending and
priority-setting by the Federal government; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
calls on Congress members Fudge,
Kucinich, Brown and Portman to
support federal funding for the over
2 million new Iraq and Afghanistan
war veterans – particularly the thousands who have come home disabled
or otherwise physically or mentally
wounded – to ensure they receive
health care, housing, jobs, education
and other support services they
deserve; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Cleveland City Council
urges the United States Congress to
reconsider our national priorities,
reduce military spending, and redirect our federal tax dollars to fund
urgently needed deficit reduction
and City and State domestic services.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to the United States
Congress, U.S. Senator Brown, U.S.
Senator Portman, U.S. Representative
Fudge, and U.S. Representative
Kucinich.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 1.

The City Record

February 29, 2012

Those voting yea: Council Members
Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins,
Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane,
Kelley, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,
Westbrook and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Member
Reed.
Absent: Council Member Pruitt.

tors Nichols and Fumich.
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Others:
Interim Direc tor, Office of Equal
Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Division
of Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED

Resolution No. 73-12.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 and Resolution
No. 921-52, adopted by the Board of
Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of January, 2012 in the amount of $16,820.17,
attached and made a part of this
resolution is received, approved and
ordered filed.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Acting Director Hardy, Directors
Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Southerington and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Nichols and Fumich.

Ord. No. 143-12.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with Ohio City Near West
Development Corporation, dba Ohio
City Incorporated to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance promotional activities for events related to the West
Side Market Centennial celebration.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development: Passage recommended by Committee on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
18. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
MOTION
By Council Member Westbrook,
seconded by Council Member Dow
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Member Terrell
H. Pruitt be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:55 p.m. to meet at the call of the
Chair.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

February 22, 2012
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, February 22,
2012 at 10:39 a.m. with Interim Director Langhenry presiding.
Present: Interim Director Langhenry, Acting Director Hardy, Directors Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler,
Flask,
Rush,
Southerington
and
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Direc-

218

Resolution No. 74-12.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Terrace Construction
Company, Inc. for the public improvement of Water Main Replacements on Winchell Road, Newell
Road, Maynard Road, and Colton
Road in the City of Shaker Heights,
Ohio, including a $102,018.64 contingency allowance, all items, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, received on December 16, 2011, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1928-07, passed December 10, 2007, upon a unit basis for
the improvement in the aggregate
amount of $1,122,205.26, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
a contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following sub-contractors by
Terrace Construction Company, Inc.
for the above-mentioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Rockport Construction &
Materials, Inc. (CSB/FBE) $148,600.00
13.242%
The Vallejo Company, Inc.
(CSB/MBE)

$188,062.00
16.758%

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Acting Director Hardy, Directors
Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Southerington and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Nichols and Fumich.
Resolution No. 75-12.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Baumann Enterprises,

February 29, 2012
Inc. for an estimated quantity of disposal of construction and demolition
debris, all items, for the Division of
Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of Public Works, for the
period of two (2) year beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on November 4, 2011,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
749-11 passed June 6, 2011, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $80,325.00, is affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which contract shall provide for an initial
order, the cost of which shall be certified to the contract in an amount
not less than $80,325.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
following
subcontractors
by
the
Baumann Enterprises, Inc. for the
disposal of construction and demolition debris is approved:
Cleveland Environmental Services
CSB/FBE — 10.818% — $8,032.00
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Acting Director Hardy, Directors
Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Southerington and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Nichols and Fumich.
Resolution No. 76-12.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1516-11,
passed December 5, 2011 by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
City
Council
amended
Sections
131.02, 131.07, 131.07, 131.15 and
131.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted
and amended by various ordinances,
relating to the distribution of the
functions of the offices within the
Department of Public Works concerning
the
Public
Auditorium
Building; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1516-11,
the
Director
of
Public
Works is charged with the management of the Public Auditorium
Building and has the authority to
enter into contracts to rent all or
any portion of the Public Auditorium Building or Cleveland Browns
Stadium; and
Whereas, Sections 77 and 79 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland
require the concurrence of this
Board of Control to prescribe, combine, distribute or abolish the functions and duties of departments and
offices; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
this Board concurs in the distribution of functions within the Department of Public Works set forth in
Ordinance No. 1516-11, passed by
Cleveland City Council on December
5, 2011.
Be it further resolved that the Secretary of the Board of Control is

The City Record

21

instructed to file a certified copy of
this resolution with the Clerk of
Council immediately upon the adoption of this resolution for attachment to Ordinance No. 1516-11.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Acting Director Hardy, Directors
Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Southerington and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Nichols and Fumich.
Resolution No. 77-12.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Platform Cement, Inc., for
the public improvement of Cleveland
Browns Stadium 2012 Capital Improvements, for Base Bid Items A, B
and C and Optional Items #1 and
#10 for the Department of Public
Works, received on February 10,
2012, under the authority of Ordinance No. 9-12, passed on February
6, 2012, upon a gross price basis for
the improvement in the aggregate
amount of $5,817,000.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director of Department of Public Works is authorized
to enter into contract for the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
following
subcontractors
by
the
Platform Cement, Inc. for the aforementioned public improvement is
approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Boss Electrostatic Painting
(other)
$800,000.00
13.755%
Caver Brothers (CSB/MBE) $780,000.00
13.409%
Grunwell Cashero (other)

Frank Novak & Sons
(CSB/FBE)

Tech Ready Mix
(CSB/MBE)

$700,000.00
12.034%

$600,000.00
10.315%

$100,000.00
1.719%

B & B Wrecking (CSB)

$

T.B.D.
T.B.D.

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Acting Director Hardy, Directors
Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Southerington and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Nichols and Fumich.
Resolution No. 78-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according to the provisions of Chapter
5722 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 106-20-008 located at Hough
Avenue in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,

219

when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, M.A.S.H. Ministries has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for greenspace;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with M.A.S.H. Ministries
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 106-20-008 located
at Hough Avenue, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00 which amount is determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Acting Director Hardy, Directors
Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Southerington and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Nichols and Fumich.
Resolution No. 79-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according to the provisions of Chapter
5722 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 138-10-126 located at 12806 Marston Avenue in Ward 2; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, W. Dean Hudson has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for Yard Expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 2 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community

22
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with W. Dean Hudson for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 138-10-126 located at
12806 Marston Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$400.00 which amount is determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Acting Director Hardy, Directors
Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Southerington and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Nichols and Fumich.
Resolution No. 80-12.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according to the provisions of Chapter
5722 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 004-07-100 located at 1802 Auburn
Ave. in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels; and
Whereas, Nestle L. J. Minor or
designee has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
an expansion of existing operations;
and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with Nestle L. J. Minor or
designee for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00407-100 located at 1802 Auburn Ave.,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$500.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Acting Director Hardy, Directors
Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Southerington and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Nichols and Fumich.

The City Record
Resolution No. 81-12.
By Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1036-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 8, 2007, and Resolution No.
333-10, adopted by this Board of Control on August 11, 2010, the City
through its Director of Public Utilities, entered into Contract No. CT2002-PS2010*222 with Staffing Solutions Enterprises, Inc. to supplement
the regularly employed staff of the
several departments of the City for
implementation of Phases 3 and 4 of
the
Customer
Information
System/Customer
Relations
Management System by rendering the professional services necessary to provide temporary staffing for, including but not limited to, answering
incoming calls; making outgoing
calls to customers; addressing customer complaints and/or concerns;
handling the heavy telephone call
volume; and scheduling appointments to check meters for possible
leaks and final meter reads, for a
period of 90 days with six options
to renew for a one-month period, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 437-10, adopted October 20, 2010, the Director of Public
Utilities was authorized to enter
into a first modification to Contract
No. CT-2002-PS2010*222 to employ up
to 10 additional temporary employees; and
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 188-11, adopted May
4, 2011, the Director of Public Utilities was authorized to enter into a
second modification to Contract No.
CT-2002-PS2010*222 to extend the term
of City Contract No. CT-2002-PS2010*222 from its current expiration
of May 18, 2011 through September
30, 2011 and to supplement the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City for implementation of Phases 3 and 4 of the
Customer Information System/Customer Relations Management System; and
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 390-11, adopted August 17, 2011, the Director of Public
Utilities was authorized to enter
into a third modification to Contract
No. CT-2002-PS2010*222 to extend the
term of City Contract No. CT-2002PS2010*222 for a period of 31 days
from its current expiration of September 30, 2011 through October 31,
2011, with four options to renew for
a one-month period through February 26, 2012 and to supplement the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City for
implementation of Phases 3 and 4 of
the
Customer
Information
System/Customer
Relations
Management System; and
Whereas, the City has determined
that extending the term of City Contract No. CT-2002-PS2010*222 from its
current expiration of February 26,
2012 through June 1, 2012 is needed
to supplement the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City for implementation of Phases 3 and 4 of the Customer Information System/Customer
Relations Management System; and
Whereas, Staffing Solutions Enterprises, Inc. has proposed by its Quotation of Temporary Services dated

220

February 29, 2012
February 10, 2012 (“Proposal”) to
perform the above-described services
for a fee of $167,552.00; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the Director of Public Utilities
is authorized to enter into a fourth
modification to City Contract No.
CT-2002-PS2010*222
with
Staffing
Solutions Enterprises, Inc., to supthe
regularly
employed
plement
staff of the several departments of
the City for implementation of Phases 3 and 4 of the Customer Information System/Customer Relations
Management System by rendering
the professional services necessary
to provide temporary staffing for,
including but not limited to, answering incoming calls; making outgoing calls to customers; addressing
customer complaints and/or concerns; handling the heavy telephone
call volume; and scheduling appointments to check meters for possible
leaks and final meter reads, from its
current expiration of February 26,
2012 through June 1, 2012, on the
basis of Vendor’s February 10, 2012
proposal, and increasing the contract
amount
by
$167,552.00
to
$1,395,470.00. The fourth modification shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall include such
additional provisions as the Director
deems necessary to benefit and protect the public interest.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Acting Director Hardy, Directors
Withers, Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush, Southerington and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Nichols and Fumich.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

The City Record

February 29, 2012
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2012
3/2/12 – 3/8/12
Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.

Exam
Type

The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.

25

26

WR

WR

Airport
Maintenance
Worker

Open

Animal Control
Officer

Open

27

WR

Docket Clerk

Open

28

WR

Electrical
Worker

Open

Emergency
Medical
Dispatcher

Open

29

WR

30

WR

Medical Billing
Reimbursement
Specialist
Open

31

WR

Medical Coder &
Billing Analyst Open

Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 25

AIRPORT MAINTENANCE WORKER (Building) (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $11.97 - $18.35 per hour.

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
on-line or at the Office of the Civil
Service Commission, 601 Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form
will be accepted. APPLICATIONS
WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICKIN
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
UP
OFFICE TO APPLY TO TAKE THE
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION —
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY,
MARCH 2, 2012 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY MARCH 8, 2012.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2012.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION

Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.

Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).

facilities maintenance work. Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXMINATION
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS.
BUILDING — A High School Diploma from an accredited high school
program or GED is required. A two
year accredited technical degree is
required. (Substitutions for degree:
completion of a two year accredited
technical apprenticeship program;
Completion of a vocational school
HVAC/R,
plumbing
program,
or
maintenance
training
commercial
program; A current State of Ohio
Stationary Engineer’s License; The
equivalent of two years full time
paid employment working commercial or industrial maintenance.) A
valid State of Ohio Class “B” Commercial Driver’s License is required
and must be obtained within 6
months of the date of hire (In which
case a valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required at hire.) Must be
able to lift and carry 50 pounds,
climb and descend ladders, as well
as enter confined spaces and below
grade vaults. Must have good verbal
communication,
average
writing,
and basic computer skills. Must be
willing to work any permanently
assigned shift in a three shift 24/7
schedule, with weekdays off as
assigned. Must comply with a Transportation
Security
Administration
(TSA) ten-year employment background check and fingerprint-based
criminal history records check.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking
an examination on the basis of age,
education or failure to meet other
minimum entrance requirements, the
fee paid by such applicant shall be
refunded to such applicant upon the
applicant’s request in writing made
within ten (10) days after the date
of examination. Any applicant who
can provide proof of unemployment,
public assistance, or indigence is
exempt from the filing fee. A copy
of such proof must be included with
the application.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION

School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.

23

Under supervision, assists in maintenance and repair work requiring
mechanical ability and familiarity
with airport equipment, facilities,
and buildings. Duties may include
but are not limited to snow removal,
landscaping, concrete, asphalt, fencing, sewer, grass cutting, and cracksealing repairs. Must be familiar
with the operation and mechanism
of building appurtenances, hand
held power tools, and larger power
equipment and vehicles used in

221

Applications
must
be
NOTE:
returned in person. All copies of
diplomas, licenses, certificates, and
resumes must be presented at the
time of filing. Applications may not
be accepted if copies are not submitted with application at time of
filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

The City Record

24
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing
and who received passing scores
shall have ten (10) additional points
added to their grades. A list of
acceptable forms of proof of residency applicants need to present at
the time of filing is included with
the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 26
ANIMAL
(OPEN)

CONTROL

OFFICER

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $11.04 - $16.95 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
on-line or at the Office of the Civil
Service Commission, 601 Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form
will be accepted. APPLICATIONS
WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICKUP
IN
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
OFFICE TO APPLY TO TAKE THE
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION —
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY,
MARCH 2, 2012 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY MARCH 8, 2012.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2012.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, performs
work of routine difficulty enforcing
animal control ordinances and regulations. Patrols assigned areas within the City to detect and prevent violations of animal control ordinances
and regulations; responds to incidents including stray animals, animal bites, noise complaints, and animal cruelty. Chases, apprehends, impounds, and transports domestic,
exotic, and wild animals that are
stray, injured, and diseased. Uses
snares, catch poles, and traps to capture and impound animals. Places
animals in animal service vehicle.
Transports captured animals to the
City's animal shelter. Investigates

incidents involving animal cruelty,
animal bites, and animal nuisances
reported by members of the public.
complainants,
victims,
Interviews
and witnesses in order to collect
information on possible violations of
animal control laws, ordinances, and
regulations. Identifies, collects, and
preserves evidence pertaining to
investigations of animal cruelty.
Identifies the owners of animals
that are the subject of an investigation. Gives verbal and written
warnings as well as citations to animal owners and animal handlers
who have violated ordinances and
regulations related to animal control. Prepares incident reports and
completes all forms pertaining to
animal control activities. Assists
Cleveland Safety Forces and other
city departments by handling animals that are present at crime
scenes. Assists bailiffs by handling
animals present during evictions.
Testifies in court and at hearings on
the enforcement of animal control
citations and other matters relating
to animal control. Performs kennel
duties as required by handling, feeding, cleaning, and providing care to
animals; maintains the sanitary conditions of kennels. Handles domestic, exotic, and wild animals that
are stray, injured, and diseased. Performs
euthanasia
procedures
on
injured, sick, dangerous, or unwanted animals by means of lethal injection (when certified). Operates a
two-way portable radio, an animal
control service vehicle, catch poles,
traps, needles, syringes, computers
and other various pieces of office
equipment. Performs other job-related duties as required. Follows all
operations
and
safety
policies.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes
and
demonstrates
competence
(demonstration of competence may
be determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXMINATION
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS.
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Must pass a Level I Academy of the National Animal Control
Association within the time frame
as required by the City of Cleveland.
Must
obtain
certification
as
a
Euthanasia Technician within one
year of the date of employment. A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License
is required. Must be able to lift and
carry a minimum of 50 pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination. Any
applicant who can provide proof of

222

February 29, 2012
unemployment, public assistance, or
indigence is exempt from the filing
fee. A copy of such proof must be
included with the application.
Applications
must
be
NOTE:
returned in person. All copies of
diplomas, licenses, certificates, and
resumes must be presented at the
time of filing. Applications may not
be accepted if copies are not submitted with application at time of
filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing
and who received passing scores
shall have ten (10) additional points
added to their grades. A list of
acceptable forms of proof of residency applicants need to present at
the time of filing is included with
the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 27
DOCKET CLERK (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $20,800.00 - $35,267.23 per
year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
on-line or at the Office of the Civil
Service Commission, 601 Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form
will be accepted. APPLICATIONS
WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICKUP
IN
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
OFFICE TO APPLY TO TAKE THE
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION —
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY,
MARCH 2, 2012 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2012.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2012.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.

February 29, 2012
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, maintains docket
of current cases. Prepares case folders and related information upon
receipt of lawsuits. Performs court
filing and research. Tracks, and provides attorneys with, information
concerning due dates and deadlines.
Prepares closed cases for storage.
Catalogs and records stored cases.
continuance
file.
PerMaintains
forms other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may
be determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:

The City Record
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $33.87 - $42.80 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
on-line or at the Office of the Civil
Service Commission, 601 Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form
will be accepted. APPLICATIONS
WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICKIN
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
UP
OFFICE TO APPLY TO TAKE THE
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION —
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY,
MARCH 2, 2012 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2012.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2012.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION

A High school diploma or GED is
required. One year of full time paid
experience in a legal setting is
required. Should have good computer skills and some familiarity with
legal terminology.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination. Any
applicant who can provide proof of
unemployment, public assistance, or
indigence is exempt from the filing
fee. A copy of such proof must be
included with the application.
Applications
must
be
NOTE:
returned in person. All copies of
diplomas, licenses, certificates, and
resumes must be presented at the
time of filing. Applications may not
be accepted if copies are not submitted with application at time of
filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 28
ELECTRICAL WORKER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
supervision,
does
skilled
Under
work in connection with the installation, repair and maintenance of
electrical light and power transmission lines and circuits, signal lines
and circuits, and electric generating
and electrically operated equipment.
Performs related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes
and
demonstrates
competence
(demonstration of competence may
be determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Completion of a certified
four-year Electrical Apprentice Program or equivalent is required. Must
have a valid State of Ohio Driver's
License. Must be able to lift and
carry a minimum of 30 pounds and
climb a ladder. (Substitution: One
year of direct electrical experience
may substitute for each year of
Apprentice Program lacking.)
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet

223

25
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination. Any
applicant who can provide proof of
unemployment, public assistance, or
indigence is exempt from the filing
fee. A copy of such proof must be
included with the application.
Applications
must
be
NOTE:
returned in person. All copies of
diplomas, licenses, certificates, and
resumes must be presented at the
time of filing. Applications may not
be accepted if copies are not submitted with application at time of
filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing
and who received passing scores
shall have ten (10) additional points
added to their grades. A list of
acceptable forms of proof of residency applicants need to present at
the time of filing is included with
the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 29
MEDICAL
EMERGENCY
PATCHER (OPEN)

DIS-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $10.50 - $19.86 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
on-line or at the Office of the Civil
Service Commission, 601 Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form
will be accepted. APPLICATIONS
WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICKUP
IN
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
OFFICE TO APPLY TO TAKE THE
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION —
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY,
MARCH 2, 2012 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY MARCH 8, 2012.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2012.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT

The City Record

26
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Answers emergency medical telephone calls from citizens, elicits pertinent information, prioritizes the
call using information from the
caller, and assigns the proper priority code. Operates Emergency Medical Service divisional computers
and radio equipment according to
City and FCC rules and regulations.
Dispatches Emergency Medical Service units on the basis of availability and proximity to the scene of the
requested service as well as coordinates multiple Emergency Medical
Service units and resources from
other agencies. Maintains familiarity with the streets of Cleveland and
various resource agencies used by
Emergency Medical Services. Contacts these agencies as needed, that
is, Police, Fire, Coast Guard, etc.
Maintains proficiency in emergency
medical dispatch in order to achieve
and maintain certification in priority dispatch. Performs other duties
as assigned or required to meet
emergency situations. Follows all
operations
and
safety
policies.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes
demonstrates
competence
and
(demonstration of competence may
be determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXMINATION
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS.
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Must have a working
knowledge of computers and be able
to type at least 35 words per minute.
Must be able to lift and carry 30
pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination. Any
applicant who can provide proof of
unemployment, public assistance, or
indigence is exempt from the filing
fee. A copy of such proof must be
included with the application.
NOTE:
Applications
must
be
returned in person. All copies of
diplomas, licenses, certificates, and
resumes must be presented at the
time of filing. Applications may not
be accepted if copies are not submitted with application at time of
filing.

NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland for at
least one year at the date of filing
and who received passing scores
shall have ten (10) additional points
added to their grades. A list of
acceptable forms of proof of residency applicants need to present at
the time of filing is included with
the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 30
MEDICAL BILLING REIMBURSEMENT SPECIALIST (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $10.42 - $21.42 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
on-line or at the Office of the Civil
Service Commission, 601 Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form
will be accepted. APPLICATIONS
WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICKUP
IN
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
OFFICE TO APPLY TO TAKE THE
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION —
APPLICATION WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY,
MARCH 2, 2012 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2012.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2012.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, accurately and properly manages receivables
for
emergency
ambulance
transportation. Posts, records, balances, and reconciles all accounts
which will require ongoing and persistent contact with patients and
payers.
Analyzes
outstanding
patient accounts and determines
actions necessary to resolve account
receivable
balances.
Identifies

224

February 29, 2012
trends and requirements for healthcare reimbursement. Prepares and
presents
reimbursement
analysis
and trend reports. Submits electronic and/or paper medical claims. Recognizes and handles all medical
reimbursement denials and appeals
in a timely manner. Performs other
job-related duties as required. Follows all operations and safety poliand
safe
work
practices.
cies
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes
and
demonstrates
competence
(demonstration of competence may
be determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Health
Information
management
specializing in medical billing is
preferred. Medical billing certification by the National Academy of
Ambulance Coding, American Medical Billing Association, American
Academy of Professional Coders,
Board of Medical Specialty Coding,
Professional Association of Health
Care Coding Specialist, or a stateaccredited
educational
institution
that formally validates competencies in medical billing, healthcare
claims, and healthcare billing compliance is required. Two years of
full time paid combined experience
performing
medical
billing/coding/reimbursement/collections with emphasis placed on prior
experience managing medical reimbursement and collections functions
is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination. Any
applicant who can provide proof of
unemployment, public assistance, or
indigence is exempt from the filing
fee. A copy of such proof must be
included with the application.
NOTE:
Applications
must
be
returned in person. All copies of
diplomas, licenses, certificates, and
resumes must be presented at the
time of filing. Applications may not
be accepted if copies are not submitted with application at time of
filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

February 29, 2012
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 31
MEDICAL CODER & BILLING ANALYST (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $10.17 - $22.07 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
on-line or at the Office of the Civil
Service Commission, 601 Lakeside
Avenue, Room 119. No other form
will be accepted. APPLICATIONS
WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICKUP
IN
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
OFFICE TO APPLY TO TAKE THE
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION —
APPLICATION WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY,
MARCH 2, 2012 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2012.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2012.
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISTHE
SION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, accurately and properly verifies, analyzes, codes, and submits medical
claims. Collects all pertinent medical and billing collection data. Verifies and determines insurance coverage and eligibility. Reviews and
determines medical necessity as
well as most accurate ICD-9, CTP,
and/or HCPS codes based upon medical terminology, medical history,
clinical assessments, and treatment.
Prepares various forms of reports
and correspondence to patients and
payers which would include patient
invoices and electronic/paper claims.
Handles patient inquiries via phone
or written correspondence. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes
and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam). Wears and properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

The City Record
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Health
Information
Management
specializing in medical billing is
preferred. Medical billing certification by the National Academy of
Ambulance Coding, American Medical Billing Association, American
Academy of Professional Coders,
Board of Medical Specialty Coding,
Professional Association of Health
Care Coding Specialist, or a stateaccredited
educational
institution
that formally validates competencies in medical billing, healthcare
claims, and healthcare billing compliance is required. Two years of
full time paid combined experience
performing medical billing or coding functions is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination. Any
applicant who can provide proof of
unemployment, public assistance, or
indigence is exempt from the filing
fee. A copy of such proof must be
included with the application.
Applications
must
be
NOTE:
returned in person. All copies of
diplomas, licenses, certificates, and
resumes must be presented at the
time of filing. Applications may not
be accepted if copies are not submitted with application at time of
filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President
February 29, 2012

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2012
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 11-202: 3007 Clinton
Avenue (Ward 3)
Storer Meat Company Incorporated
owner, appeal to change use from a
meat processing facility to storage,
warehouse and distribution an existing one and two story structure
located on an irregular shaped corner parcel in a D1 Residence Industry District; contrary to Area Regu-

225

27
lations in the Cleveland Zoning
Code under Sections 345.02(c), (f)
and (g), a side yard of 3 feet and
a rear yard of 14 feet are provided
where not less than 25 feet is
required at lot lines that are also
the boundary lines of Residence Districts and the property abuts a residential district to the east; the
entrance and exit to the premises
are from a street approved by the
Board of Zoning Appeals, if it finds
the probable volume and type of
traffic to such premises will not
change materially the existing character of such streets nor be detrimental to the adjoining or adjacent
residential area; and trucking operations may not be conducted in
evenings, nights or on Sundays nor
on holidays generally observed by
business and single-shift industry;
and under the provisions in Section
349.07(a) accessory off-street parking spaces, driveways and maneuvering areas shall be properly graded for drainage so that all water is
drained with the lot providing such
parking spaces, surfaced with concrete, asphalt or other approved surfacing material ad maintained in
good condition; and no landscaping
is provided, contrary to Sections
352.08-12 that require a 6 foot width
of landscaped frontage that provides
50 percent year round opacity where
the parking lot abuts the street and
a 10 foot wide landscaped transition
strip that provides a minimum of 75
percent year round opacity where
the premises abuts the residence district; and the substitution of a nonconforming use requires a special
permit from the Board of Zoning
Appeals, issued only if after public
hearing the Board finds that such
substitution or other change is no
more
harmful
or
objectionable
according to Section 359.01(a) in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-26: 4650 Rocky River
Drive (Ward 19)
Rae-Ann Center Properties LLC,
owner, appeal to expand a parking
lot area on parcels located between
Parkmount and Rockland Avenues
in a C2 Local Retail Business District; subject to the limitations
under Section 357.07 parking of
motor vehicles is prohibited within
a specific front yard setback that
measures 75 feet back from the
street center line; and no frontage
landscaping
is
proposed
along
Rocky River Drive, where a minimum 6 feet wide frontage landscaping strip is required under the provisions in Sections 352.08-11 in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 12-27: 2202 Prame
Avenue (Ward 14)
Westside Ministries, owner, appeal
to establish use as a residential
drug and alcohol treatment program
for 15 patients a former convent
building located on a 30' x 95' lot
in Multi-Family and Local Retail
Business Districts; and subject to
the
limitations
under
Section
337.08(e)(5), the proposed use is not
permitted and in a Multi-Family District under sub-section (5), the following uses are permitted, if located not less than 15 feet from any
adjoining premises in a Residence
District not used for a similar purpose; namely, hospitals, sanitariums,
nursing, rest or convalescent homes,
not primarily for contagious dis-

The City Record

28

February 29, 2012

eases nor for the care of epileptics
or drug or liquor patients and the
proposed use will be primarily for
the care of drug/liquor patients.

fence in the rear portion of property 75 feet wide and approximately
500 feet deep in a Semi-Industry District.

Calendar No. 12-32: 3387 Fulton Road
(Ward 14)
Bay Presbyterian Church, owner,
appeals to establish use as housing
for 13 veterans and 2 staff persons
in an existing structure located on
an acreage parcel in a B2 Two-Family District; and the proposed use is
not permitted in a Two-Family District and is first permitted in a
Residential
District
Multi-Family
according to Section 337.03; and
under the provisions in Section
359.01, the substitution of a nonconforming use requires the approval of
the Board of Zoning Appeals

Calendar No. 12-18: 4512 Pearl Road
Louis
and
Nicole
Simbeck
appealed to change use of a commercial building to a retail clothing
store in a Local Retail Business District.

Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2012
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, February 27, 2012, the following appeals
were heard by the Board.
The following appeals were APPROVED:
Calendar No. 12-22: 3914 East 154th
Street
Kenneth Underwood appealed to
install a 5' x 5' pre-manufactured
wheelchair lift and wooden porch
landing at the front of a two family dwelling in a One-Family District.
Calendar No. 11-157: 1721 Fulton
Road
Robert Schmidt appealed to erect
a 1,463 square foot garage and studio on a lot in a B1 Two-Family District.

Calendar No. 12-19: 2482 West 5th
Street
and
Stacie
Kavanagh
James
appealed to change the recorded use
of a single family dwelling to a two
family dwelling in a Two-Family
District.
Calendar No. 12-1: 13501 Terminal
Avenue
Cleveland Metropolitan School District appealed to erect an addition
to a public school building on property between Terminal and Harold
Avenues in an A1 One-Family District.
The following
MISSED:

appeal

The
following
WITHDRAWN:

appeals

were

DIS-

Calendar No. 12-17: 3858 West 135th
Street
Erasmo Moye appealed to erect a
two-story room addition to the rear
of a dwelling on a corner lot in an
A1 One-Family District.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 2012
Calendar No. 12-2: 11801 Worthington
Avenue
Cleveland Metropolitan School District appealed to erect an addition
to a public school building on
acreage between Worthington and
Brooklawn Avenues in an A1 OneFamily District.

The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.

was

read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:

NO MEETING

Calendar No. 12-20: 16820 Lakeshore
Boulevard postponed to April 9,
2012.

PUBLIC NOTICE

Calendar No. 12-21: 368 Eddy Road
postponed to April 9, 2012.

NONE

Calendar No. 11-125: 1130 Ivanhoe
Road postponed to May 21, 2012.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

Calendar No. 11-233: 3342 East 119th
Street postponed to April 16, 2012.

NONE

File No. 22-12 — Carr Center HVAC
and Facility Improvements (ReBid), for the Division of Architecture and Site Development, Department of Public Works, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1724-09,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, February 8, 2012.
THERE
WILL
BE
A
NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT
OF
TWENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS
($25.00)
IN
THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED
TO
PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2012 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CARR CENTER
SOUTH
BUILDING,
5601
CARNEGIE AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44103.
BIDDERS ARE DIRECTED TO
MEET AT THE MVM EMPLOYEE
ENTRANCE OF THE FACILITY.
February 22, 2012 and February 29, 2012
THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 2012

The following appeals heard by
the Board on February 21, 2012 were
adopted and approved on February
27, 2012.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 12-16: 19603 Nottingham
Road
Angela Cavotta appealed to install
175 feet of 8 foot high chain link

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and

226

File No. 18-12 — Purchase of Labor
and Materials to Maintain and
Repair Low-Pressure Steam Boiler Systems and Appurtenances,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1216-11,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, October 10, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING THURS-

February 29, 2012
DAY, MARCH 1, 2012 AT 10:00 A.M.
THE CARL B. STOKES PUBLIC
UTILITIES BUILDING, ATRIUM
CONFERENCE ROOM — 4TH
FLOOR, 1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

The City Record
THERE WILL BE A NON-MAN DA TORY PRE-BID MEETING
FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2012 AT
2:30 P.M. THE TOM L. JOHNSON
BUILDING,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.

February 22, 2012 and February 29, 2012
February 22, 2012 and February 29, 2012
FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 2012
THURSDAY, MARCH 22, 2012
File No. 15-12 — Purchase of Various
Mower and Cutting Equipment
Parts and Labor, for the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MAN PRE-BID MEETING
DA TORY
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7, 2012
AT
10:30
A.M.
THE
MOTOR
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, BUILDING #1, DOWNSTAIRS MEETING
ROOM, 4150 EAST 49TH STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
File No. 16-12 — Cab & Chassis with
Front Loading Refuse Body and
Related Equipment, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 547-11,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, May 16, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MAN DA TORY
PRE-BID MEETING
MONDAY, MARCH 5, 2012 AT
10:30 A.M. THE MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44105.
File No. 17-12 — Cab & Chassis with
Flat bed and Crane and Related
Equipment, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 1602-10,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, December 10, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MAN DA TORY
PRE-BID MEETING
MONDAY, MARCH 5, 2012 AT
10:30 A.M. THE MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44105.

File No. 19-12 — 1825 Lakeside Avenue HVAC Improvements, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1680-11, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland.
Pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-RE FUND ABLE FEE FOR PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
IN
THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
OR A MONEY ORDER ONLY (NO
COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH
AND NO CREDIT CARDS WILL
BE ACCEPTED TO PURCHASE
PLANS).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY, MARCH 1, 2012 AT 2:30 P.M.
THE CARL B. STOKES PUBLIC
BUILDING,
MAIN
UTILITIES
AUDITORIUM, 1201 LAKESIDE
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
AVENUE,
44114.
February 22, 2012 and February 29, 2012

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
REPRINT

File No. 20-12 — Labor and Materials to Clean Insulators, Bushings
and Lighting Arrestors, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 62711, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 6, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MAN DA TORY PRE-BID MEETING
FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2012 AT
10:30 A.M. THE TOM L. JOHNSON BUILDING, 1300 LAKESIDE
AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.

Ord. No. 1708-11.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of a proposal to
enact Section 74-1 of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland relating to residence preference points for promotional examinations.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health or safety in that it must be certified to the
election authorities immediately in
order for the question to appear at a
special election to be held on March 6,
2012, and providing for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes the submission to the electors
of the City of Cleveland at a special
election to be held at the usual
places of voting in the City of Cleveland on Tuesday, March 6, 2012, of
a proposal to supplement the Charter of the City of Cleveland by
enacting Section 74-1 to read as follows:

File No. 21-12 — Labor and Materials to Provided Landscaping Services, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1599-10, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 6, 2010.

§74-1 Residency Preference Points
for Promotional Examinations
A person who is a bona fide resident
of the City of Cleveland for at least
one year from the date of filing of an
application for a promotional civil
service examination, who receives a
passing grade on that promotional

February 22, 2012 and February 29, 2012
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 2012

227

29
examination, shall have added to his
or her raw score five (5) points.
Section 2. That the foregoing proposed amendment to the Charter, on
receiving at least a majority of the
votes cast at the March 6, 2012 special
election, shall become effective immediately on its adoption.
Section 3. That the Clerk of this
Council is authorized to promptly forward a certified copy of this ordinance to the Board of Elections of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County shall cause
an appropriate notice to be given of
the election to be held on March 6,
2012, on the foregoing amendment to
the Charter of this City and otherwise
to provide for the election in the manner provided by the general laws of
the State of Ohio.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to cause the full text of
the proposed amendment to the Charter to be published once a week for
two consecutive weeks in a newspaper published in the City of Cleveland, with the first publication to be
made at least fifteen days prior to the
special election to be held on March 6,
2012, as provided in Article XVIII,
Section 9 of the Constitution of the
State of Ohio, Section 731.211 of the
Revised Code, and Section 200 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland.
Section 6. That the ballot submitting the question of the adoption of
the amendment shall read as follows:
PROPOSED CHARTER
AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND
A majority affirmative vote is necessary for passage.
Shall Section 74-1 of the Charter of
the City of Cleveland be amended to
provide that a person who is a bona
fide resident of Cleveland for at least
one year from the date of filing of an
application for a promotional civil
service examination and receives a
passing grade, shall have five (5)
points added to his or her raw score on
the examination?
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed December 5, 2011.
Effective December 9, 2011.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Thursday, February 23, 2012
9:00 a.m.
General Fund Budget Hearings:
Finance
Committee:
Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Keane, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: Cleveland.
Friday, February 24, 2012
9:00 a.m.
General
Finance

Fund Budget
Committee:

Hearings:
Present:

The City Record

30
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,
Pruitt, Westbrook.

Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,
Pruitt, Westbrook.
Tuesday, February 28, 2012
9:00 a.m.

Monday, February 27, 2012
9:00 a.m.
General Fund Budget Hearings:
Finance
Committee:
Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;

General Fund Budget Hearings:
Finance
Committee:
Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,

February 29, 2012
Keane, Miller, Mitchell,
Pruitt, Westbrook.

Polensek,

Wednesday, February 29, 2012
9:00 a.m.
General Fund Budget Hearings:
Finance
Committee:
Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,
Pruitt, Westbrook.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Econ. Dev. — Acquire & Re-Convey Property for TIF chain-of-title for 800 Superior,
LLC. (O 209-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 212

Banners
Detroit Ave., Herman Ave., West 73rd St., West 65th St., — encroach into right-of-way —
12 Pole Banners — Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Capital Project
(Ward 15) (O 214-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216

Board of Control— Board of Control
Special Events, Manager of Public Auditorium— concur to Ord. 1516-11 (BOC Res. 76-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219

Board of Control— Cleveland Browns Stadium
Capital improvements, 2012— per Ord. 9-12 to Platform Cement, Inc.— Dept. of
Public Works (BOC Res. 77-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219

Board of Control— Community Development Department
Auburn Avenue, 1802 (Ward 14)— PPN 004-07-100— Nestle L.J. Minor (BOC Res. 80-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 220
Hough Avenue (Ward 7)— PPN 106-20-008— M.A.S.H. Ministries (BOC Res. 78-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219
Marston Avenue, 12806 (Ward 2)— PPN 138-10-126— W. Dean Hudson (BOC Res. 79-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219

Board of Control— Finance Department
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in January 2012— per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 73-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218

Board of Control— Land Reutilization Program
Auburn Avenue, 1802 (Ward 14)— PPN 004-07-100— Nestle L.J. Minor (BOC Res. 80-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 220
Hough Avenue (Ward 7)— PPN 106-20-008— M.A.S.H. Ministries (BOC Res. 78-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219
Marston Avenue, 12806 (Ward 2)— PPN 138-10-126— W. Dean Hudson (BOC Res. 79-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219

Board of Control— Professional Service Contracts
Staffing, temporary for Customer Information System / Customer Relations Management
System, Phase 3 & 4— modify contract per BOC Res. 333-10, 437-10, 188-11, 390-11 —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 81-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 220

Board of Control— Public Auditorium
Special Events, Manager — concur to Ord. 1516-11 (BOC Res. 76-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219

Board of Control— Public Improvement Contracts
Cleveland Browns Stadium capital improvements, 2012— per Ord. 9-12 to Platform Cement,
Inc.— Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 77-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219
Water main replacement (Shaker Heights— Winchell Rd., Newell Rd., Maynard Rd., Colton
Rd.)— per Ord. 1928-07 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc.— Division of Water,
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 74-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218

228

February 29, 2012

The City Record

31

Board of Control— Public Utilities Department
Staffing, temporary for Customer Information System / Customer Relations Management
System, Phase 3 & 4— modify contract per BOC Res. 333-10, 437-10, 188-11, 390-11 —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 81-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 220
Water main replacement (Shaker Heights— Winchell Rd., Newell Rd., Maynard Rd., Colton
Rd.)— per Ord. 1928-07 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc.— Division of Water
(BOC Res. 74-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218

Board of Control— Public Works Department
Cleveland Browns Stadium capital improvements, 2012— per Ord. 9-12 to Platform Cement,
Inc. (BOC Res. 77-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219
Debris, construction and demolition, disposal of— per Ord. 749-11 to Baumann
Enterprises, Inc.— Division of Waste Collection and Disposal (BOC Res. 75-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218
Special Events, Manager of Public Auditorium— concur to Ord. 1516-11 (BOC Res. 76-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219

Board of Control— Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in January 2012— per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 73-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218

Board of Control— Requirement Contracts
Debris, construction and demolition, disposal of— per Ord. 749-11 to Baumann
Enterprises, Inc.— Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Dept. of Public Works
(BOC Res. 75-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218

Board of Control— Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Debris, construction and demolition, disposal of— per Ord. 749-11 to Baumann
Enterprises, Inc.— Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 75-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218

Board of Control— Water Division
Staffing, temporary for Customer Information System / Customer Relations Management
System, Phase 3 & 4— modify contract per BOC Res. 333-10, 437-10, 188-11, 390-11 —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 81-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 220
Water main replacement (Shaker Heights— Winchell Rd., Newell Rd., Maynard Rd., Colton
Rd.)— per Ord. 1928-07 to Terrace Construction Company, Inc.— Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 74-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218

Board of Zoning Appeals— Report
East 119th Street, 3342, (Ward 6) – Covenant Community Church of Cleveland, owner —
appeal postponed to 4/16/12 on 2/27/12 (Cal. 11-233). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 154th Street, 3914, (Ward 1) – Kenneth Underwood, owner— appeal heard on 2/27/12
(Cal. 12-22) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eddy Road, 368, (Ward 9) – Michael Payton, owner— appeal postponed to 4/9/12 on 2/27/12
(Cal. 12-21) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Road, 1721, (Ward 3) – Robert Schmidt, owner— appeal heard on 2/27/12 (Cal. 11-157) .
Ivanhoe Road, 1130, (Ward 11) – The 5400 Corporation LLC, owner, and John
Hirko, prospective tenant— appeal postponed to 5/21/12 on 2/27/12 (Cal. 11-125) . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Boulevard, 16820, (Ward 11) – Abe Tayeh, owner— appeal postponed to 4/9/12 on
2/27/12 (Cal. 12-20). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nottingham Road, 19603, (Ward 11) – Angela Cavotta, owner— appeal granted and adopted
on 2/27/12 (Cal. 12-16) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4512, (Ward 13) – Louis and Nicole Simbeck, owners— appeal granted and
adopted on 2/27/12 (Cal. 12-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Terminal Avenue, 13501, (Ward 18) – Cleveland Board of Education, owner— appeal granted
and adopted on 2/27/12 (Cal. 12-1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 135th Street, 3858, (Ward 18) – Erasmo Moye, owner— appeal dismissed and adopted
on 2/27/12 (Cal. 12-17) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2482, (Ward 3) – James and Stacie Kavanagh, owners— appeal granted and
adopted on 2/27/12 (Cal. 12-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Worthington Avenue, 11801, (Ward 17) – Cleveland Board of Education, owner— appeal
withdrawn and adopted on 2/27/12 (Cal. 12-2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226

Board of Zoning Appeals— Schedule
Clinton Avenue, 3007, (Ward 3) – Storer Meat Company Incorporated, owner— appeal to be
heard on 3/12/12 (Cal. 11-202) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225
Fulton Road, 3387, (Ward 14) – Bay Presbyterian Church, owner— appeal to be heard
on 3/12/12 (Cal. 12-32) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
Prame Avenue, 2202, (Ward 14) – Westside Ministries, owner— appeal to be heard on
3/12/12 (Cal. 12-27). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225

229

The City Record

32

February 29, 2012

Rocky River Drive, 4650, (Ward 19) – Rae-Ann Center Properties, LLC, owner— appeal to
be heard on 3/12/12 (Cal. 12-26) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225

Capital Projects
Detroit Ave., Herman Ave., West 73rd St., West 65th St., — encroach into right-of-way —
12 Pole Banners — Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. (Ward 15)
(O 214-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216
Erieside Ave., 751 — encroach into right-of-way — Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Plaques —
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, Inc. (Ward 03) (O 213-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 215
St. Malachi Run, Annual — permit — March 10th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03)
(O 220-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216

Charter
Enact Section 74-1- Residency Preference Points For Promotional Examinations (O 1708-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 227

City of Cleveland Bids
Boiler, low pressure steam system repair and maintenance— Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water— per Ord. 1216-11— bid due March 15, 2012 (advertised 2/22/2012 and
2/29/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cab & chassis with flat bed and crane and related equipment— Department of Public Works —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance— per Ord. 1602-10— bid due March 16, 2012
(advertised 2/22/2012 and 2/29/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cab & chassis with front loading refuse body and related equipment— Department of Public
Works— Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance— per Ord. 547-11— bid due March 16,
2012 (advertised 2/22/2012 and 2/29/2012) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carr Center HVAC and facility improvements (Re-Bid)— Department of Public Works— per
Ord. 1724-09— bid due March 14, 2012 (advertised 2/22/2012 and 2/29/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insulators, bushings and lighting arrestors, clean— Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Cleveland Public Power— per Ord. 627-11— bid due March 21, 2012
(advertised 2/22/2012 and 2/29/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave., 1825 HVAC improvements— Department of Public Utilities— Division
of Water— per Ord. 1680-11— bid due March 22, 2012 (advertised 2/22/2012 and 2/29/2012) . .
Landscaping services— Department of Public Utilities— Division of Cleveland Public
Power— per Ord. 1599-10— bid due March 21, 2012 (advertised 2/22/2012 and 2/29/2012) . . . .
Mower and cutting equipment parts and labor— Department of Public Works— Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance— per C.O. Sec. 181.101— bid due March 16, 2012 (advertised
2/22/2012 and 2/29/2012). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 227

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 227
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 227
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 227
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 227

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 227

City Planning Commission
East 78th St. (Between Marble Ave. & Osage Ave.) — Plat Review and Approval — Dedication
Plat of relocation (Ward 12) (F 224-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ivanhoe Rd. (Southwest side) and Mandalay Ave. — Change Use and Height District (Ward 10)
(O 212-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnny Kilbane House — PPN 002-05-082 — designate as landmark (Ward 15) (O 211-12) . . . . . . .
Murrell-Capers House — PPN 103-31-019 — designate as landmark (Ward 05) (O 210-12) . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 214
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213

Cleveland Public Power
Utilities Department — Amend Section 523.21 — CPP Rate — remove sunset (O 216-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 214
Utilities Department — profession services — CPP Insurance and Risk Management Services —
Assist with future procurements (O 203-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209

Codified Ordinances
Automated Cameras to impose civil penalties upon red light and speeding violators — Amend
Section 413.031 (O 208-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enact New Sect(s) 195.01 to 195.2102 & 195.99 — Admissions Tax (O 202-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enact New Section 127.12 — Telecommunications (O 215-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — Amend Section 523.21 — CPP Rate — remove sunset (O 216-12) . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

211
202
213
214

Commemoration
Kilban, Johnny (R 240-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202

Condolences
Conway, Margaret Coletta (R 228-12) .
Epperson, Gwenda Kay (R 227-12) . . .
Jordan, John Samuel (R 225-12) . . . . . .
Lanham, Andrew “A.J.” (R 226-12). . . .
Martin, William H. (R 241-12). . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

230

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

201
201
201
201
201

February 29, 2012

The City Record

33

Stokes, Cordi (R 230-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
Vodraska, Nicole “Niki” (R 229-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201

Congratulations
Daley, Randy & Laurene (R 232-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Circle Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) — 170th Anniversary —
Congratulations (R 234-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jadallah, Malak (R 236-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lithuania’s Independence — 94th Anniversary (R 231-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mina, Abdulla (R 237-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rose, Bernie (R 233-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wolosz, Timothy R. (R 235-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

201
202
201
202
201
202

Congress of United States
Congress reconsider national priorities and redirect tax dollars (R 219-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 217

Contracts
Economic Development — Ohio City Inc. — West Side Market Centennial Celebration (O 143-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218
Enact New Section 127.12 — Telecommunications (O 215-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213
Public Works — Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69918 with AVI Food Systems, Inc. —
Vending Machines in city facilities (O 204-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 210

Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
Detroit Ave., Herman Ave., West 73rd St., West 65th St., — encroach into right-of-way —
12 Pole Banners — Capital Project (Ward 15) (O 214-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216

Economic Development Department
Acquire & Re-convey property for TIF chain-of-title for 800 Superior, LLC. (O 209-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 212
Contract — Ohio City Inc. — West Side Market Centennial Celebration (O 143-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218

Encroachments
Detroit Ave., Herman Ave., West 73rd St., West 65th St., — right-of-way —
12 Pole Banners — Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Capital Project
(Ward 15) (O 214-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216
Erieside Ave., 751 — right-of-way — Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Plaques — Rock and Roll
Hall of Fame and Museum, Inc. — Capital Projects (Ward 03) (O 213-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 215

Finance Department
Enact New Sect(s) 195.01 to 195.2102 & 195.99 — Admissions Tax (O 202-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Enact New Section 127.12 — Telecommunications (O 215-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213

Grants
2012 Ohio Drug Law Enforcement Fund Grant (FY 2011) — Ohio Office Of Criminal
Justice Services (O 207-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 211
ASPCA Partnership Grant Program — Safety Department (O 205-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 210
OVW Education Program, 2011 — Domestic Violence & Child Advocacy Center (O 206-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 210

Insurance
Utilities Department — profession services — CPP Insurance and Risk Management Services —
assist with future procurements (O 203-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209

Landmark Commission
Johnny Kilbane House — PPN 002-05-082 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission
(Ward 15) (O 211-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213
Murrell-Capers House — PPN 103-31-019 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission
(Ward 05) (O 210-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213

Liquor Permits
Bridge Ave., 2927 (Patio) — stock transfer application (Ward 03) (F 221-12) . . . . . . . .
Larchmere Blvd., 12718 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 06) (F 222-12) . . .
Miles Rd., 16800 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 01) (R 218-12) . . . . . .
Scranton Rd., 3101 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1241-11 (Ward 14)
West 58th St., 2032 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 15) (F 223-12) . . . . . . .

231

..........
..........
..........
(R 217-12)
..........

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

201
201
217
217
201

The City Record

34

February 29, 2012

Ohio City Near West Development Corporation
Economic Development — contract — Ohio City Inc. — West Side Market Centennial Celebration
(O 143-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218

Permits
St. Malachi Run, Annual — March 10th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03) (O 220-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216

Plats
East 78th St. (Between Marble Ave. & Osage Ave.) — Plat Review and Approval — Dedication
Plat of relocation (Ward 12) (F 224-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201

Professional Services
Utilities Department — CPP Insurance and Risk Management Services — assist with future
procurements (O 203-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209

Public Works
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69918 with AVI Food Systems, Inc. — Vending Machines
in city facilities (O 204-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 210

Purchases and Supplies Division
Econ. Dev. — Acquire & Re-convey property for TIF chain-of-title for 800 Superior,
LLC. (O 209-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 212

Recognition
Austin, Thomas (R 239-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
On Leong Chinese Merchants Association — Chinese Lunar New Year (R 238-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202

Reprints
Enact Section 74-1- Residency preference points for promotional examinations (O 1708-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 227

Resolution of Support
Congress reconsider national priorities and redirect tax dollars (R 219-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 217

Rock ‘N Roll Hall of Fame Foundation
Erieside Ave., 751 — encroach into right-of-way — Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Plaques —
Capital Projects (Ward 03) (O 213-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 215

Safety Department
2012 Ohio Drug Law Enforcement Fund Grant (FY 2011) — Grant — Ohio Office of
Criminal Justice Services (O 207-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ASPCA Partnership Grant Program — Grant (O 205-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automated Cameras to impose civil penalties upon red light and speeding violators — Amend
Section 413.031 (O 208-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
OVW Education Program, 2011 — Grant — Domestic Violence & Child Advocacy Center (O 206-12)

. . . . . . . . . . . . 211
. . . . . . . . . . . . 210
. . . . . . . . . . . . 211
. . . . . . . . . . . . 210

Taxes
Congress reconsider national priorities and redirect tax dollars (R 219-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 217
Enact New Sect(s) 195.01 to 195.2102 & 195.99 — Admissions Tax (O 202-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202

Traffic Code
Automated Cameras to impose civil penalties upon red light and speeding violators — Amend
Section 413.031 (O 208-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 211

Utilities Department
Amend Section 523.21 — CPP Rate — remove sunset (O 216-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 214
Profession Services — CPP Insurance and Risk Management Services — assist with
future procurements (O 203-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209

232

February 29, 2012

The City Record

35

Walk-A-Thons
St. Malachi Run, Annual — permit — March 10th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (Ward 03)
(O 220-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216

Ward 01
Miles Rd., 16800 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 218-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 217

Ward 02
Stokes, Cordi — Condolence (R 230-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201

Ward 03
Bridge Ave., 2927 (Patio) — stock transfer application — liquor permit (F 221-12) . . . . . . . . .
Conway, Margaret Coletta — Condolence (R 228-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Econ. Dev. — Acquire & Re-convey property for TIF chain-of-title for 800 Superior,
LLC. (O 209-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — contract — Ohio City Inc. — West Side Market Centennial
Celebration (O 143-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Erieside Ave., 751 — encroach into right-of-way — Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Plaques —
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, Inc. — Capital Projects (O 213-12). . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Circle Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) — 170th Anniversary —
Congratulations (R 234-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kilban, Johnny — Commemoration (R 240-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Malachi Run, Annual — permit — March 10th — Hermes Sports & Events, Inc. (O 220-12)
Vodraska, Nicole “Niki” — Condolence (R 229-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 212
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 218
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 215
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

201
202
216
201

Ward 05
Murrell-Capers House — PPN 103-31-019 — designate as landmark — City Planning Commission
(O 210-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213

Ward 06
Larchmere Blvd., 12718 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 222-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201

Ward 07
Epperson, Gwenda Kay — Condolence (R 227-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201

Ward 08
Jordan, John Samuel — Condolence (R 225-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lanham, Andrew “A.J.” — Condolence (R 226-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Martin, William H. — Condolence (R 241-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
On Leong Chinese Merchants Association — Chinese Lunar New Year — Recognition (R 238-12)
Stokes, Cordi — Condolence (R 230-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

201
201
201
202
201

Ward 09
Lanham, Andrew “A.J.” — Condolence (R 226-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201

Ward 10
Ivanhoe Rd. (Southwest Side) and Mandalay Ave. — Change Use and Height District — City
Planning Commission (O 212-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 214
Martin, William H. — Condolence (R 241-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201

Ward 11
Daley, Randy & Laurene — Congratulations (R 232-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
Lithuania’s Independence — 94th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 231-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
Martin, William H. — Condolence (R 241-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201

Ward 12
East 78th St. (Between Marble Ave. & Osage Ave.) — Plat Review and Approval — Dedication
Plat of relocation (F 224-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
Wolosz, Timothy R. — Congratulations (R 235-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202

Ward 14
Scranton Rd., 3101 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1241-11 — liquor permit
(R 217-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 217

233

The City Record

36

February 29, 2012

Ward 15
Conway, Margaret Coletta — Condolence (R 228-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Ave., Herman Ave., West 73rd St., West 65th St., — encroach into right-of-way —
12 Pole Banners — Detroit Shoreway Community Development Org. — Capital Project
(O 214-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Johnny Kilbane House — PPN 002-05-082 — designate as landmark — City Planning
Commission (O 211-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kilban, Johnny — Commemoration (R 240-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rose, Bernie — Congratulations (R 233-12). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 58th St., 2032 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 223-12) . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

213
202
201
201

Ward 16
Austin, Thomas — Recogniton (R 239-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Wolosz, Timothy R. — Congratulations (R 235-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202

Ward 17
Jadallah, Malak — Congratulations (R 236-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Mina, Abdulla — Congratulations (R 237-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202

Ward 18
Wolosz, Timothy R. — Congratulations (R 235-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202

Ward 19
Wolosz, Timothy R. — Congratulations (R 235-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202

Zoning
Ivanhoe Rd. (Southwest Side) and Mandalay Ave. — Change Use and Height District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 10) (O 212-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 214

234

