The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

March the Sixteenth, Two Thousand and Eleven

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney

Containing

PAGE

President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
41
48
51
52
53
53
53
53
54
56
56

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
Name Residence
1 Terrell H. Pruitt 3877 East 189th Street 44122
2 Zachary Reed 3734 East 149th Street 44120
3 Joe Cimperman P.O. Box 91688 44101
4 Kenneth L. Johnson 2948 Hampton Road 44120
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland 2369 East 36th Street 44105
6 Mamie J. Mitchell 12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712 44120
7 TJ Dow 7715 Decker Avenue 44103
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson 9024 Parkgate Avenue 44108
9 Kevin Conwell 10647 Ashbury Avenue 44106
10 Eugene R. Miller 13615 Kelso Avenue 44110
11 Michael D. Polensek 17855 Brian Avenue 44119
12 Anthony Brancatelli 6924 Ottawa Road 44105
13 Kevin J. Kelley 5904 Parkridge Avenue 44144
14 Brian J. Cummins 3104 Mapledale Avenue 44109
15 Matthew Zone 1228 West 69th Street 44102
16 Jay Westbrook 1278 West 103rd Street 44102
17 Dona Brady 1272 West Boulevard 44102
18 Martin J. Sweeney 3632 West 133rd Street 44111
19 Martin J. Keane 15907 Colletta Lane 44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – _________________, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Interim Director, Mural Building, 75
Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development – _______, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – _________, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director
Robert J. Triozzi; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lynn McLaughlin-Murray – Courtroom 12A
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan – Courtroom 13A
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2011

Vol. 98

No. 5075

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Services
Committee:
Cimperman,
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Mil ler, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 348-11.
March 9, 2011
Sandra Franklin
First Assistant Clerk
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Dear Mrs. Franklin:
You are hereby requested by
Cleveland
City
Council,
without
objection, to serve as Clerk of Council Pro Tempore for the purposes of
the Council meeting on March 14,
2011 and for all matters requiring
the Clerk’s signature as a result of
said Council meeting.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, March 14, 2011
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cummins,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Polensek, Sweeney and Westbrook.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer, Chris Warren, Chief of
Regional Development, Monyka S.
Price, Chief of Education, Maureen
Harper, Chief of Communications,
Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary,
Andrew Watterson, Chief of Sustainability, Natoya J. Walker-Minor,
Chief of Public Affairs – Interim
Director of Office of Equal Opportunity, and Directors Wasik, Triozzi,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Flask, Cox,
Interim
Director
Butler,
Rush,
Rybka,
Nichols,
Griffin,
Brown,
Fumich, Lucille Ambroz, Secretary,
Civil Service, and Teresa Stevenson
of legislative Affairs.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Pastor Bobby Laster of New Life
Missionary Baptist Church, located
at 13905 Diana Avenue in Ward 10.
Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
K. Johnson, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed
with
and
the
journal
approved. Seconded by Council Member Brady.

329

Your assistance is appreciated.
Sincerely,
Martin J. Sweeney, President
Cleveland City Council
Received.
File No. 349-11.
From: Ohio State Senator Nina
Turner
–
Re:
Acknowledgement
receipt of Council Resolution No.
102-11; Resolution No. 103-11; Resolution No. 148-11 and Resolution No.
211-11. Received.
File No. 350-11.
From: Ohio State Senator Michael
J. Skindell – Re: Acknowledgement
receipt of Council Resolution No. 2111; Resolution No. 103-11; Resolution
No. 148-11; Resolution No. 209-11 and
Resolution No. 211-11. Received.
File No. 351-11.
From: Attorney Tyresha BrownO’Neil – Notice of Withdrawal as
Counsel for Amber R. Wells and
Lake Shore Cocktail, LLC, Permit
#4979600,Class D5 Liquor Application. Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTANCE
File No. 352-11.
From Director of Department of
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects —
Division of Architecture and Site
Development — Contract No. 68828
with Messina Floor Covering, LLC
for the improvement of Convention
Center Carpet. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 353-11.
From Director of Department of
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects —
Division of Architecture and Site
Development — Contract No.69571
with R.W. Clark Company, Inc. for
the improvement to the Former
Coast Guard Station (Lantern Structural Steel Replacement). Received.

The City Record

4
FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 354-11.
Re: #4422102 – D5, D6 Transfer of
Ownership
Application
—
KK
Tricks, LLC, d.b.a. KAK Tricks
Night Club, 620 Frankfort Avenue.
(Ward 3) Received.
File No. 355-11.
Re: #6419015 – D5 Transfer of
Ownership
Application
—
9102
Liquor Group, LLC, 9102 Aetna
Road. (Ward 5) Received.
File No. 356-11.
Re: #2509200 – C2 Additional Class
Application — ENAM 79TH Inc, 7909
Superior
Avenue.
(Ward
5)
Received.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 323-11.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of electrical
parts and equipment, including labor,
materials, and installation if necessary, to maintain, repair, and modify
electrical systems, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control, for a period of two years,
with two one-year options to renew,
the first of which is exercisable
through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a period up to
two years, with two one-year options
to renew of the necessary items of
electrical
parts
and
equipment,
including labor, materials, and installation if necessary, to maintain,
repair, and modify electrical systems,
in the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for
the entire term. The first of the oneyear options to renew shall not be
exercised without additional legislative authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted and the
first of the one-year options to renew
is exercised, then the second of the
one-year options to renew shall be
exercisable at the option of the Director of Port Control without the necessity of obtaining additional authority
of this Council.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be

made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RQN 3001, RL 2011-9)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 324-11.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into one or more contracts with
City Year to perform community service work and to collaborate with various non-profit agencies.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of PublicWorks is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with City Year
to perform community service work
and to collaborate with non-profit
agencies, in an amount not to exceed
$75,000.00, payable from Fund No. 017004-6380, Request No. RQS 7004, RL
2011-23.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 325-11.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into contract with the Cleveland
Municipal Football Association to
conduct a city-wide football program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
contract with the Cleveland Municipal Football Association to conduct a
city-wide football program and to pay
participant entry fees, in an amount
not to exceed $75,098, payable from
Fund No. 01-7004-6380, Request No.
RQS 7004, RL 2011-21.

330

March 16, 2011
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 326-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Attorney General for the Ohio
Drug Use Prevention Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the amount of
$39,648, from the Ohio Attorney General to conduct the Ohio Drug Use Prevention Program; that the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the checklist for the grant
contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the checklist for the
grant, File No. 326-11-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
and shall not be changed without
additional
legislative
authority,
including the obligation of the City of
Cleveland to provide cash matching
funds in the amount of $39,648 from
Fund Nos. 10 SF 025, 10 SF 027, and 10
SF 049, is approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant if the
extension
does
not
involve
an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 327-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services for the 2010 Ohio Drug Law
Enforcement Fund Grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $250,000, and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term from the Ohio
Office of Criminal Justice Services to

March 16, 2011
conduct the 2010 Ohio Drug Law
Enforcement Fund Grant; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the subgrant application
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the subgrant application for the grant, File No. 327-11-A,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
the public hearing on this legislation,
including the obligation of the City of
Cleveland to provide cash matching
funds in the amount of $83,334 from
Fund Nos. 10 SF 025, 10 SF 027, and 10
SF 049, is approved in all respects and
shall not be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 328-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
National Institute of Justice for the
2010 Strategic Approach to Sexual
Assault Kit Evidence Project; authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of materials
equipment, supplies, and services;
and authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more contracts with various entities and with Elise Day to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $199,058, and any other
funds that may become available during the grant term, from the National
Institute of Justice, to conduct the
2010 Strategic Approach to Sexual
Assault Kit Evidence Project; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the application for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 328-11-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is
approved in all respects and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant during
the grant term.

The City Record
Section 4. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements during the
grant term of the necessary items of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services needed to implement the
grant as described in the file, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for
the entire term.
Section 5. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a delivery order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with various
entities and individuals, including
but not limited to, the Ohio Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation, the Cuyahoga County Coroner, the Cleveland Rape Crisis Center,
and Cleveland State University, to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Elise Day
for professional services necessary to
coordinate and manage the grant.
Section 9. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 329-11.
By Council Members Conwell,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 676.06, 676.061, 676.062,
676.063, 676.064, 676.08 and 676.09 relating to the regulation of scrap metal

331

5
dealers, recordkeeping requirements,
electronic reporting to the Division of
Police, electronic recording of identification, special purchase items,
exempt transactions, recordkeeping
by secondhand dealers, and the sale
of plastic crates or trays; to repeal
existing section 676.06, as amended by
Ordinance No. 66-08, passed June 2,
2008; to repeal Sections 676.08, 676.09,
676.10 and 676.11, as enacted by Ordinance No. 104769, passed November 9,
1936; and to amend Section 676.01,
relating to definitions, as amended by
Ordinance No. 66-08, passed June 2,
2008; and to amend Section 676.99, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1304-97,
passed December 14, 1998, relating to
penalties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 676.01 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 66-08, passed June 2, 2008, and Section 676.99, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1304-97, passed December 14, 1998,
are amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
Section 676.01 Definitions; Junk
Carts; Scope of Provisions
(a) As used in this chapter:
(1) “Junk” means old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, trash, waste,
batteries, paper, rubber, iron, steel,
and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous materials, but does not
include scrap tires as defined in section 3734.01 of the Revised Code. [RC
4737.05(A)]
(2) “Junk cart” means any vehicle
in the streets of the City used for the
purpose of collecting, transporting or
selling junk.
(3) “Junk dealer” means anyone
dealing in the purchase or sale of
junk, except a motor vehicle salvage
dealer, salvage motor vehicle auction,
or salvage motor vehicle pool licensed
pursuant to RC Chapter 4738 or a
scrap metal processor.
(4) “Junk yard” means an establishment or place of business that is
maintained or operated for the purpose of storing, keeping, buying, or
selling junk. For purposes of Section
676.13, “junk yard” includes “scrap
metal
processing
facility.
[RC
4737.05(B)]
(5) “Person” includes an individual, corporation, business trust,
estate, trust, partnership, and association. [RC 1.59(C)]
(6) “Scrap metal processor” means
any person who processes iron, steel,
or nonferrous scrap, and whose principal product is scrap iron and steel or
nonferrous scrap for sale for remelting purposes.
(7) “Scrap metal processing facility” means an establishment having
facilities for processing iron, steel, or
nonferrous scrap and whose principal
product is scrap iron and steel or nonferrous scrap for sale for remelting
purposes. [RC 4737.05(D)]
(8) “Secondhand dealer” means a
person other than a scrap metal dealer as defined in section 676.06 that
purchases,
sells,
exchanges,
or
receives secondhand articles of any
kind other than special purchase articles as defined in section 676.06, scrap
iron,
and
scrap
metal.
[RC
4737.01(B)]
(b) Any person who uses a vehicle
for the purpose of collecting, trans-

6
porting or selling any junk shall affix
to a conspicuous and indispensable
part of the vehicle a junk cart plate
issued by the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses. The plate
shall clearly set forth the official
number of the junk cart and contain
the words “Junk Cart” and the date of
license expiration. The design or
color of this plate shall be changed at
the beginning of each license year.
This division shall not apply to scrap
metal processors who have obtained a
license pursuant to Sections 676.02
through 676.04.
(c) This section shall not apply to
persons dealing in the purchase or
sale of secondhand pianos, books,
magazines, rugs, tapestries, burlaps,
paintings, drawings, etchings and
engravings, nor to exchanges, returns
or credits of merchandise where the
article
or
articles
exchanged,
returned or credited are accepted in
full or part payment for new merchandise; nor to persons who deal
exclusively in heavy industrial equipment, furniture or secondhand automobiles.
Section 676.99 Penalties
Whoever violates divisions (b), (c),
(d), (e) or (f) of Section 676.06, Section 676.061, division (a) of Section
676.064, Section 676.08, or any other
provision of this chapter that does not
specify another penalty is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor on the first
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on the second offense, and a
misdemeanor of the first degree on
the third and any subsequent offense.
Each day during which noncompliance or a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
Section 2. That existing Section
676.01, of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 66-08, passed June 2,
2008, and existing Section 676.99, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1304-97,
passed
December
14,
1998,
are
repealed.
Section 3. That existing Section
676.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 66-08, passed June 2,
2008, and existing Sections 676.08,
676.09, 676.10 and 676.11, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 104769, passed November 9, 1936, are repealed.
Section 4. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 676.06, 676.061, 676.062, 676.063,
676.064, 676.08 and 676.09 to read,
respectively, as follows:
Section 676.06 Dealers in Scrap Iron,
Metal, and Waste Materials to Keep
Record of Transactions
(a) As used in this section and sections 676.061, 676.062, 676.063 and
676.064:
(1) “Scrap metal dealer” means the
owner or operator of a business that
purchases or receives scrap metal.
(2) “Special purchase article”
means all of the following:
A. Beer kegs;
B. Cable, wire, electrical components, and other equipment used in
providing cable service or any utility
service, including, but not limited to,
copper or aluminum coverings, housings, or enclosures related thereto;
C. Grave markers, sculptures,
plaques, and vases made out of metal,
the appearance of which suggest that
the articles have been obtained from
a cemetery;

The City Record
D. Guard rails for bridges, highways, and roads; highway and street
signs; street light poles and fixtures;
manhole covers, water meter covers,
and other similar types of utility
access covers; traffic directional and
control signs and light signals, metal
marked with the name of a political
subdivision of the state, and other
metal articles that are purchased and
installed for use upon authorization
of the state or any political subdivision of the state;
E. Historical, commemorative, and
memorial markers and plaques made
out of metal;
F. Four-wheel metal carts, commonly referred to as “grocery carts,” that
are generally used by individuals to
collect and transport consumer goods
while shopping;
G. Four-wheel metal carts, commonly referred to as “metal bossies,” that
are used to transport or merchandise
food products that are stored in
crates, shells, or trays.
(3) “Common recycled matter”
means bottles and other containers
made out of steel, tin, or aluminum
and other consumer goods that are
metal that are recycled by individual
consumers and not in the bulk or
quantity that could be supplied or
recycled by large business establishments. “Common recycled matter”
does not include a metal tray used by
a product producer, distributor, retailer, or agent of a product producer, distributor, or retailer as a means for the
bulk transportation, storage, or carrying of retail containers of milk, baked
goods, eggs, or bottled beverage products.
(4) “Consumer goods” has the same
meaning as in section 1309.102 of the
Revised Code.
(5) “Recyclable materials” means
the metal materials described in division (b)(5) of this section, on the condition that those metal materials are
not special purchase articles.
(6) “Motor vehicle” has the same
meaning as in section 4501.01 of the
Revised Code.
(b) Every scrap metal dealer shall
maintain a record book or electronic
file, in which the dealer shall keep an
accurate and complete record of all
articles purchased or received by the
dealer in the course of the dealer’s
daily business. On and after the effective date of this amendment, every
entry in the record book or electronic
file shall be numbered consecutively.
Every dealer shall maintain the
record for each article purchased or
received for a minimum period of one
year after the date the dealer purchased or received the article. Said
records shall contain all of the following:
(1) Name and residence of the person from whom said articles were purchased or received and a copy of that
person’s personal identification card;
(2) The date and time the scrap
metal dealer purchased or received
the articles;
(3) If the seller or provider of the
articles arrives at the dealer’s place
of business in a motor vehicle, the
license plate number of that motor
vehicle along with the state that
issued the license plate;
(4) For metal articles that are not
recyclable materials, a full and accurate description of each article purchased or received by the dealer that
includes identifying letters or marks
written, inscribed, or otherwise
included on the article and the name
and maker of the article if known;

332

March 16, 2011
(5) For recyclable materials that
are not special purchase articles, a
scrap metal dealer shall use the following category codes to identify the
recyclable materials that the dealer
receives:
A. “Number one copper,” which
includes clean copper pipe, clean copper wire, or other number one copper
that does not have solder, paint, or
coating;
B. “Number two copper,” which
includes unclean copper pipe, unclean
copper wire, or other number two copper;
C. “Sheet copper,” which includes
copper roofing, copper gutters, copper
downspouts, and other sheet copper;
D. “Insulated copper wire”;
E. “Aluminum or copper radiators,”
which includes aluminum radiators,
aluminum copper radiators, and copper radiators;
F. “Red brass,” which includes red
brass values and other red brass;
G. “Yellow brass,” which includes
yellow brass fixtures, yellow brass
valve and fitting, ornamental brass,
and other yellow brass;
H. “Aluminum sheet”;
I. “Aluminum extrusions,” which
includes aluminum bleachers, aluminum benches, aluminum frames,
aluminum pipe, and other aluminum
extrusions;
J. “Cast aluminum,” which includes
aluminum grills, lawnmower decks
made of aluminum, aluminum motor
vehicle parts and rims, and other cast
aluminum;
K. “Clean aluminum wire”;
L. “Unclean aluminum wire”;
M. “Aluminum exteriors,” which
includes aluminum siding, aluminum
gutters and downspouts, aluminum
shutters, aluminum trim, and other
aluminum exterior items;
N. “Contaminated aluminum”;
O. “Stainless steel,” which includes,
sinks, appliance housing, dishes, pots,
pans, pipe, and other items made out
of stainless steel;
P.
“Large
appliances,”
which
includes consumer and other appliances;
Q. “Miscellaneous steel,” which
includes steel grates, steel farm
machinery, steel industrial machinery, steel motor vehicle frames, and
other items made out of steel;
R. “Sheet irons,” which includes
bicycles, motor vehicle body parts
made of iron, and other items made
using sheet iron;
S. “Motor vehicle nonbody parts,”
which includes motor vehicle batteries, radiators, and other nonbody
motor vehicle parts;
T. “Catalytic converters”;
U. “Lead”;
V. “Electric motors.”
(c) All journal brasses, and other
railroad metals, other than purchases
and sales under sections 4973.13 to
4973.16 of the Revised Code, shall be
held by the dealer for a period of thirty days after being purchased or
acquired.
(d) The records required under
division (b) of this section shall be
open for inspection by the representative of any law enforcement agency
and the director of public safety or
the director’s designated representative during all business hours. A
scrap metal dealer shall provide a
copy of those records to any law
enforcement agency that requests the
records or to the director or director’s
representative, upon request. Records
submitted to any law enforcement
agency pursuant to this section are

March 16, 2011
not public records for purposes of section 149.43 of the Revised Code. A person who claims to own a stolen article
that may be identified in those
records, or an agent of that person,
who provides proof of having filed a
stolen property report with the appropriate law enforcement agency, may
request those records. The law
enforcement agency shall provide
those records upon a request made by
such a person or that person’s agent,
but the law enforcement agency shall
redact information that reveals the
name of the seller of any article and
the price the dealer paid for any article the dealer purchased or the estimated value of any article the dealer
received.
The
law
enforcement
agency shall determine which records
to provide, based upon the time period
that the alleged theft is reported to
have taken place. A law enforcement
agency may charge or collect a fee for
providing records as required by this
section.
(e) (1) No scrap metal dealer shall
purchase or receive any metal articles
from a person who refuses to show the
dealer the person’s personal identification card.
(2) The law enforcement agency
that serves the jurisdiction in which a
scrap metal dealer is located shall
provide a list, as that agency determines appropriate, of the names and
descriptions of persons known to be
or who are suspected to be thieves or
receivers of stolen property. No scrap
metal dealer shall purchase or receive
articles from any person identified on
the list the dealer receives from the
law enforcement agency.
(3) No scrap metal dealer shall purchase or receive any special purchase
articles from any person who is under
eighteen years of age.
(4) No scrap metal dealer shall purchase or receive any special purchase
article without complying with division (b) of this section and division
(b), (c), or (d) of section 676.061.
(5) No scrap metal dealer shall purchase or receive more than one catalytic converter per day from the
same person except from a motor
vehicle dealer as defined in section
4517.01 of the Revised Code.
(6) No scrap metal dealer shall
treat a transaction as exempt from
section 676.06 or 676.061 unless the
seller provides evidence of satisfying
division (d)(3) of section 676.063.
(f) Every scrap metal dealer shall
post a notice in a conspicuous place
on the dealer’s premises notifying
persons who may wish to transact
business with the dealer of the penalties applicable to any person who
does any of the following:
(1) Provides a false personal identification card to the dealer;
(2) With purpose to defraud, provides any other false information to
the dealer in connection with the dealer’s duty to maintain the records
required under division (b) of this
section;
(3) Violates section 2913.02 of the
Revised Code.
(g) (1) Except as otherwise provided in the second paragraph of division
(e) of this section, a chief of police,
marshal, or other chief law enforcement officer, a sheriff, constable, or
chief of police of a township police
department or police district police
force, and a deputy, officer, or
employee of the law enforcement
agency served by the marshal or the
municipal or township chief, the

The City Record
office of the sheriff, or the constable
is immune from liability in a civil
action, including an action for
defamation, libel, or slander, to recover damages for injury, death, or loss
to persons or property or reputation
allegedly caused by an act or omission in connection with compiling and
providing the list required by division
(e) of this section.
(2) The immunity described in division (g)(1) of this section does not
apply to a person described in that
division if, in relation to the act or
omission in question, any of the following applies:
A. The act or omission was manifestly outside the scope of the person’s employment or official responsibilities.
B. The act or omission was with
malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
C. Liability for the act or omission
is expressly imposed by a section of
the Revised Code.
[RC 4737.04]
Section 676.061 Duties With Respect
to Special Purchase Articles
A scrap metal dealer shall do all of
the following with respect to each
special purchase article the scrap
metal dealer purchases or receives:
(a) Comply with the requirements
of this section in addition to complying with the requirements of section
676.06;
(b) Take a photograph of each special purchase article;
(c) Obtain from the seller or
provider of the special purchase article proof that the seller or provider
owns the special purchase article;
(d) If payment is rendered for the
special purchase articles, issue a
check for the purchase of the special
purchase articles;
(e) Withhold payment for the purchase of the special purchase articles
for a period of two days after the day
the special purchase articles are purchased;
(f) If an asserted owner of stolen
special purchase articles or that
owner’s agent provides proof of having filed a stolen property report with
the appropriate law enforcement
agency, make records describing special purchase articles the scrap metal
dealer purchased or received after the
alleged date of theft available for
inspection to the asserted owner or
owner’s agent for a period of six
months after the alleged date of theft
of the articles, except that the scrap
metal dealer shall withhold the name
of the person from whom the special
purchase articles were purchased or
received and the amount paid for the
special purchase articles.
[RC 4737.041]
Section 676.062 Electronic Recording of Identification
A scrap metal dealer and a person
who purchases, sells, exchanges, or
receives secondhand articles may use
an electronic device that decodes and
records information contained in the
metallic strip on a personal identification card to record a person’s name,
address, and photograph in lieu of
making a copy of a person’s personal
identification card to comply with the
requirements of sections 676.08, 676.06
and 676.061, on the condition that the
dealer or person retains that recorded
information and makes it available in
accordance with the requirements to

333

7
make copies available under those
sections. [RC 4737.042]
Section 676.063 Exempt Transactions
Sections 676.06 and 676.061 do not
apply with respect to any of the following:
(a) The donation of articles to nonprofit organizations or to any other
person, on the condition that the person donating the articles receives no
payment or any other valuable consideration in exchange for or due to
donating the articles;
(b) The sale or donation of common
recycled matter;
(c) Sales transacted between a
scrap metal dealer and an organization that is exempt from federal taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the
“Internal Revenue Code of 1986,” 100
Stat. 285, 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3), as
amended, and that collects, for its
own fundraising purposes, scrap ferrous and nonferrous metals for recycling rather than disposal;
(d) Sales transacted between a
scrap metal dealer and a government
unit or another business, including a
demolition company, public utility
company, or another scrap metal dealer, on the condition that the government unit or business satisfies the following criteria:
(1) In the course of providing the
government unit’s or business’s services to others or maintaining the
government unit’s or business’s property, whether onsite or offsite, the
government unit or business generates scrap ferrous and nonferrous
metals for recycling rather than disposal.
(2) If the sales transaction involves
a government unit, reference to the
government unit as a bona fide unit of
government can be readily found by
the public.
(3) If the sales transaction involves
a business, the business satisfies one
of the following criteria:
A. The business is registered with
the secretary of state.
B. The business has been issued a
license under section 5739.17 of the
Revised Code.
C. The business advertises its services in a newspaper of general circulation once a week for not less than
six consecutive months or provides a
receipt showing payment for such
advertising, a telephone book, electronic media that is available to the
public, or some other type of media
that is owned and operated by a person other than the business and, if an
individual operates the business, the
individual advertising the business
has a specific place of business that is
not the individual’s permanent home
residence.
(4) The government unit provides
proof of compliance with division
(d)(2) of this section or the business
provides proof of compliance with
division (d)(3) of this section to the
scrap metal dealer with whom the
government unit or business transacts business.
(e) Sales transacted between a
scrap metal dealer and a person
whose primary business is to create
products that result in bulk quantities of ferrous and nonferrous metal
used for recycling rather than disposal.
(f) Sales of catalytic converters
transacted between a scrap metal
dealer and a motor vehicle dealer as
defined in section 4517.01 of the
Revised Code. [RC 4737.043]

8
Section 676.064 Scrap Metal Dealers
to Electronically Submit to the Division of Police the Records of Transactions Required to be Kept
Findings. This Council finds that
the only practicable way to review
the large volume of records required
to be kept by scrap metal dealers both
by Chapter 4737. of the Revised Code
and this chapter is in an electronic
format. The requirement imposed
upon scrap metal dealers by this section that they submit reports of their
transactions to the Division of Police
in an electronic format is complimentary to the requirement of recordkeeping already imposed by state law
and furthers the same law enforcement purposes as the recordkeeping
requirements.
(a) No scrap metal dealer shall fail
to submit to the Division of Police
each day the records of transactions
required to be kept under Sections
676.06, 676.061, 676.062 and 676.063 utilizing a computer program to be provided by the Division of Police for use
by scrap metal dealers and accessible
to them via the internet.
(b) The Director of Public Safety
may issue rules and regulations to
effectuate the electronic reporting
requirement imposed by this section,
which shall take effect 14 days after
their publication in the City Record.
Section 676.08 Duty of Dealer in Secondhand
Articles;
Identification
Required from Seller; Records
(a) “Personal identification card”
means a current and valid driver’s
license, military identification card,
state identification card issued under
sections 4507.50 to 4507.52 of the
Revised Code, or a state identification
card issued by another state on the
condition that that card contains
information substantially similar to
the information contained on a state
identification card issued under sections 4507.50 to 4507.52 of the Revised
Code and also contains a photograph
of the person to whom the card is
issued.
(b) A person other than a scrap
metal dealer, as defined in section
676.06, purchasing, selling, exchanging, or receiving secondhand articles
of any kind other than special purchase articles as defined in section
676.06 scrap iron, and scrap metal,
shall post in a conspicuous place in or
upon the person’s shop, store, wagon,
boat, or other place of business, a sign
having the person’s name and occupation legibly inscribed thereon, and
shall keep a separate record book or
electronic file in which shall be written, in the English language, at the
time of the purchase or exchange of
such articles, a description thereof,
the name, description, and residence
of the person from whom purchased
and received, and the day and time
when such purchase or exchange was
made, and shall make and keep a copy
of the person’s personal identification
card. Every entry shall be numbered
consecutively,
commencing
with
number one.
The purchaser shall retain the
record book or electronic file and
copies of personal identification
cards for at least one year after the
purchase or exchange date and shall
make the record or file and copies
available for inspection by any law
enforcement officer at all reasonable
times.
[RC 4737.01]

The City Record
Section 676.09 Plastic Crates or
Trays Used to Carry Milk or Baked
Goods
(a) No person shall sell or purchase
a plastic crate or tray that is used for
the carrying of retail containers of
milk or baked goods and that has
embossed upon it a company logo.
(b) Whoever violates division (a)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
[RC 1333.71; RC 1333.99]
Section 5. That the electronic
reporting requirements imposed upon
scrap metal dealers by Section 676.064
as enacted by this ordinance shall
take effect 120 days after the passage
of this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 330-11.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 2 an 4 of Ordinance No. 195805, passed November 21, 2005, relating
to a contract with One Source Technology, LLC, dba IQ Employment
Application Screening Database, to
provide development assistance to
partially finance the build-out and to
purchase equipment for the property
located at 1255 Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 2 and 4 of
Ordinance No. 1958-05, passed November 21, 2005, are amended to read as
follows:
Section 2. That the terms of the loan
shall be according to the terms set
forth in the Summary contained in
File Nos. 1958-05-A and 1958-05-B, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept the collateral as set forth in
the files referenced above in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
loan agreement, security instrument,
or other document shall be prepared
and approved by the Director of Law.
Section 2. That existing Sections 2
and 4 of Ordinance No. 1958-05, passed
November 21, 2005, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 331-11.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).

334

March 16, 2011
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title of Ordinance No. 414-10,
passed May 24, 2010; and to supplement the ordinance by adding new
Section 3a. relating to applying for
and accepting a grant for environmental cleanup and demolition of St.
Vincent Charity Hospital Campus
Buildings and authorizing one or
more professional services contracts
to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title of Ordinance No. 414-10, passed May 24, 2010,
is amended to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
Clean Ohio Revitalization Fund grant
from the State of Ohio Department of
Development
for
environmental
cleanup and demolition of St. Vincent
Charity Hospital campus buildings in
order to prepare the site for redevelopment and other major renovations
to the campus located at 2351 E. 22nd
Street in the City of Cleveland; authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with St. Vincent Charity Medical Center to implement the
project; and authorizing the Director
to employ one or more professional
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants who employ an Ohio VAPCertified professional to provide professional services to conduct environmental assessment, remediation and
demolition activities at St. Vincent
Medical Center and to complete services to issue a “No Further Action
Letter.”
Section 2. That the existing title of
Ordinance No. 414-10, passed May 24,
2010, is repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 41410, passed May 24, 2010, is supplemented by adding new Section 3a. to
read as follows:
Section 3a.
That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized
to employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants who employ an
Ohio VAP-Certified professional for
the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to conduct environmental assessment, remediation and
demolition activities at St. Vincent
Medical Center and to complete services to issue a “No Further Action
Letter.”
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Economic Development from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Economic Development for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

March 16, 2011

The City Record

9

Ord. No. 332-11.
By Council Members K. Johnson, Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance to enact Section 131.081 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, relating to rates
for rental of the City Hall Rotunda; and to amend Section 131.78 of the codified ordinances, relating to parking.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are supplemented by enacting new Section 131.081 to
read as follows:
Section 131.081 Rental Fees for City Hall Rotunda
(a) The Director of Public Works may allow private parties to rent the City Hall Rotunda after normal business hours
and on weekends provided that said parties secure a permit from the Director under Section 131.07 and pay the fees specified in division (b) of this section.
(b) Rental rates for the Rotunda shall be based on a four (4) hour period. The Director of Public Works shall assess
and collect the following fees for the rental of the City Hall Rotunda:
(1) A $500.00 non-refundable deposit;
(2) $1,375.00 per four (4) hours of use; and
(3) $165.00 for each additional hour of use, or fraction thereof, prior to the event; and
(4) $320.00 for each additional hour of use, or fraction thereof, after the event.
(c) The City Hall Rotunda closes at 12:00 a.m. All events shall end at least one-half hour before closing.
(d) When a private party obtains banquet food and beverage service from a person or firm under contract with the
City to provide concession services in the Rotunda, rental of the Rotunda shall be included in the price that the private
party pays for such concession services, and no other charges for rental shall be imposed. When a private party obtains
banquet food and beverage service from a person or firm other than one under contract with the City for those services,
Rotunda rental shall be assessed and collected in accordance with division (b) of this Section.
(e) Net proceeds from fees collected from the rental shall be deposited into the fund or funds which are designated for
use by the Office of Special Events and Marketing for Special Events and Marketing purposes.
Section 2. That existing Section 131.78 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1330-A-10, passed December 6, 2010, is amended to read as follows:
Section 131.78 Parking Fees
(a) The Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall cause to be collected fees and charges, which include tax, at the following parking facilities under the following schedule:
(1)

(2)

(4)

Willard Park Garage:
A. First hour or portion thereof
B. Each additional half hour or portion
C. Daily maximum rate from 6 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
D. Additional overnight charge from 11:00 p.m. to 6 a.m.
E. General monthly rate
F.1. Special monthly rate for City employees
F.2. Special monthly rate for federal, state and
county employees
G. Special events (flat rate—pay enter)
H. Charge for lost or stolen key card
I. Late payment charge
J. Early Bird Rate (time to be determined by the
Director of Public Works)
K. Special Event flat rate in conjunction with
City Hall Rotunda rental (for weekend events)
Canal Basin Lot:
A. Daily rate from 6 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
(flat rate—pay enter)
B. General monthly rate (weekdays between
6 a.m. and 6 p.m.)
C. Special events, weekdays between 6:00 p.m.
and 6 a.m., weekends and holidays (flat rate—pay enter)
D. Late payment charge
E. Charge for lost or stolen key card
North Coast Municipal Parking Lot:
A. Daily rate (flat rate—pay enter)
B. City of Cleveland employees
C. General monthly rate—non-City of
Cleveland employees
D. Special events (flat rate—pay enter)
E. Charge for lost or stolen key card
F. Late payment fee

$2.25
$1.25
up to $10.00
up to $10.00
up to $125.00
$55.00
$110.00
up to $20.00
$50.00
$5.00
up to $8.00
$450.00

up to $2.00
up to $40.00
up to $10.00
$5.00
$50.00

up to $3.50
no charge
up to $45.00
up to $20.00
$50.00
$5.00

(b) Wherever the schedule contained in division (a) of this section specifies a maximum fee, the fee to be charged
shall be fixed by the Commissioner of Parking Facilities with the consent of the Director of Public Works up to the maximum specified.
(c) Monthly rate customer parking privileges at Willard Park Garage, Canal Basin Lot, and North Coast Municipal
Parking Lot do not include entry to these garages and lots for special events held on weekends, holidays or after 6 p.m.
on weekdays.

335

10

The City Record

March 16, 2011

(d) Fees collected from the Willard Park Garage, Canal Basin Lot, and North Coast Municipal Parking Lot shall be
credited to the Division of Parking Facilities Enterprise Fund for general operations.
(e) The Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall fix and collect the fees and charges as the Commissioner shall determine at parking facilities not identified in division (a) of this section but under the Commissioner’s control until the
Council and the Board of Control fix fee schedules for the parking facilities.
(f) Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the contrary, the Commissioner of Parking Facilities shall:
(1) Designate ten (10) parking spaces in Willard Garage located as close as practical to the entrance to City Hall to
be assigned by the Director of Public Works to City employees with the greatest number of years seniority as a City
employee;
(2) Designate a sufficient number of parking spaces located either in the North Mall Lot or in Willard Garage for City
employees who are employed to clean City Hall and who begin work at 3:00 p.m. or later and work later than the closing
of Willard Garage.
(g) In addition to the schedule contained in division (a) of this section, the Commissioner of Parking Facilities may
enter into agreements with the sponsors of events that wish to reserve specific parking spaces in the Willard Park
Garage, or the North Coast Municipal Parking Lot that provide for the payment by the sponsor of up to thirty dollars
($30.00) per parking space.
Section 3. That existing 131.78 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 1330A-10, passed December 6, 2010, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Works, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 347-11.
By Council Members Cleveland, Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to repeal all Sections of Chapters 688, 689, 690, 692, and 692A, as enacted or amended by various ordinances, relating to billiard rooms, bowling alleys, dance halls and dances, music entertainment, and coin operated amusement devices; to repeal Section 347.12 related to tattooing and body piercing; to amend Sections 343.01, 343.11,
and 349.04, as amended by various ordinances; to renumber existing Section 325.570 to new Section 325.571 and Section
325.571 to new Section 325.573; and to enact new Sections 325.091, 325.511, 325.572, 325.711, 329.041, 343.15, 690.01 to 690.12
and 690.99 relating to zoning and Entertainment Venues.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following:
Sections 688.01 to 688.07, as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September 22, 1924,
Section 688.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Section 688.09, as amended by Ordinance No. 228-93, passed February 8, 1993,
Section 688.10, as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September 22, 1924,
Section 688.11, as amended by Ordinance No. 2267-90, passed September 14, 1992,
Sections 688.12 to 688.16, as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September 22, 1924,
Section 688.17, as amended by Ordinance No. 26-42, passed May 11, 1942,
Section 688.99, as amended by Ordinance No. 534-66,passed October 10, 1966,
Section 689.01, as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September 22, 1924,
Section 689.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Section 689.03, as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September 22, 1924,
Section 689.99, as amended by Ordinance No. 478-49, passed June 27, 1949,
Section 690.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 101423, passed April 16, 1934,
Sections 690.02, 690.03, and 690.04, as enacted by Ordinance No. 94275, passed May 11, 1931,
Section 690.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Section 690.06, as enacted by Ordinance No. 94275, passed May 11, 1931,
Section 690.07, as amended by Ordinance No. 101423, passed April 16, 1934,
Section 690.08, as enacted by Ordinance No. 94275, passed May 11, 1931,
Section 690.09, as amended by Ordinance No. 101423, passed April 16, 1934,
Section 690.10, as amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Section 690.11, as enacted by Ordinance No. 94275, passed May 11, 1931,
Sections 690.12 and 690.13, as amended by Ordinance No. 1328-40, passed September 24, 1941,
Section 690.99(a), as enacted by Ordinance No. 94275, passed May 11, 1931,
Section 690.99(b), as amended by Ordinance No. 1328-40, passed September 24, 1941,
Section 692.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 456-64, passed March 16, 1964,
Section 692.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Sections 692.03, 692.04, and 692.99, as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September 22, 1924,
Sections 692A.01 to 692A.03, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Sections 692A.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Section 692A.05, as enacted by Ordinance No. 356-A-91, passed March 28, 1991,
Section 692A.06, as amended by Ordinance No. 1104-94, passed June 13, 1994,
Sections 692A.07 to 692A.14 and 692A.99, as enacted by Ordinance No. 356-A-91, passed March 28, 1991,
are repealed.
Section 2. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are supplemented by enacting new Sections 325.091,
325.511, 325.572, 325.711, 329.041 and 343.15 to read as follows:
Section 325.091 Bar
“Bar” means a place in which alcoholic beverages are sold to customers for consumption on the premises as the principal business of the place.

336

March 16, 2011

The City Record

11

Section 325.511 Nightclub
“Nightclub” means a restaurant, bar or tavern, as defined in this code, where one or more forms of entertainment are
provided and which devotes areas to live entertainment or dancing constituting more than four hundred (400) square
feet of floor area or more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the establishment’s total floor area, whichever amount is
less.
Section 325.572 Restaurant
“Restaurant” means a place in which food, ready for consumption, is sold to customers on the premises, for eat-in or
take-out service, as the principal business of the place, and in which no alcoholic beverages are sold.
Section 325.711 Tavern
“Tavern” means a place in which food, ready for consumption, is sold to customers on the premises as the principal
business of the place, with full meals served during at least seventy-five percent (75%) of operating hours, and in which
alcoholic beverages are sold to customers for consumption on the premises.
Section 329.041 Conditional Uses
The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consider an application for approval of any use permitted as a Conditional Use in
a particular zoning district in accordance with the following provisions.
(a) Purpose. These provisions regarding Conditional Uses are established to ensure the proper regulation of certain
uses that cannot be permitted by right in particular zoning districts without a case-by-case consideration of the impact
of those uses on nearby properties. These uses may be necessary or desirable in a particular district if due consideration
is given to the location, development and operation of the uses.
(b) Definition. “Conditional Use” means any use of property listed in this zoning code as permitted in a particular zoning district only if approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(c) Administration. An individual submitting an application to the Department of Building and Housing to establish
a use that is permitted as a Conditional Use in the subject zoning district shall be directed to submit a Conditional Use
Permit application to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(1) Application. The applicant for a Conditional Use Permit shall complete and submit an application provided by the
Board of Zoning Appeals, along with any plans and information necessary for the Board to determine compliance with
the criteria for approval of the Conditional Use.
(2) Public Hearing. Prior to hearing the case, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall provide proper public notice and shall
mail written notice to the owner or owner’s agent at the address given on the application and, so far as it is practicable,
written notice to directly affected property owners or their agents given at least seven (7) days prior to the date of such
proposed hearing in such manner as the Board may, by its rules, prescribe. In considering the application, the Board
shall utilize the Conditional Use criteria applicable to all Conditional Uses and any criteria applicable to the specific
Conditional Use under consideration.
(3) Action and Conditions. After its public hearing, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall either approve or disapprove
the application and shall create a written record of the reasons for its decision and any conditions attached to an
approval. In the case of an approval, the Board may attach conditions and safeguards it deems necessary to meet the purposes of this chapter and the zoning code.
(4) Issuance. The Department of Building and Housing shall issue a Conditional Use Permit if approved by the Board
of Zoning Appeals and shall ensure that the plans submitted by the applicant are in conformance with those approved
by the Board and with any conditions required by the Board.
(d) Criteria. An application for a Conditional Use shall be approved only if it is determined that the use will conform
to the following criteria:
(1) The Conditional Use will be in general accord with the purpose, intent and objectives of the zoning code and the
district in which it would be located.
(2) The establishment, maintenance or operation of the Conditional Use will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or general welfare.
(3) The Conditional Use will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the character of the surrounding district.
(4) The establishment of the Conditional Use will not impede the normal and orderly development and improvement
of the surrounding property for uses permitted in the district.
(5) Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and egress in a manner that minimizes traffic
congestion and minimizes traffic volumes on residential streets.
(6) There is minimal potential for future hardship on the Conditional Use that could result from the proposed use being
surrounded by uses permitted by right that are incompatible.
(7) The Conditional Use shall, in all other respects, conform to the applicable regulations of the district in which it is
located.
(e) Expiration and Revocation. A Conditional Use Permit approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall expire six
(6) months after approval if neither a Building Permit nor Certificate of Occupancy, as applicable, has been obtained
pursuant to the Conditional Use Permit. Such permit, however, may be renewed prior to its expiration in accordance with
the rules of the Board of Zoning Appeals. At any time after issuance of a Conditional Use Permit, the Department of
Building and Housing may revoke the Conditional Use Permit if it finds that the use is not being maintained or operated in conformance with the standards under which the permit was issued or any associated conditions of approval. Such
revocation may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(f) Criteria for Specific Uses. The following criteria for approval shall apply to Conditional Uses specified in this division.
(1) Outdoor Dining Patios. In considering approval of a Conditional Use Permit application for an outdoor dining patio
or area in accordance with the provisions of division (c) of Section 343.15, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall determine
whether the proposal meets the following criteria, in addition to the criteria of division (d) of this section.
A. The outdoor area is located or configured in a manner that will prevent noise, vibration, and exterior lighting from
disturbing occupants of nearby residences or likely future residences in proximity to the outdoor area.
B. Sound volumes from entertainment to be performed or broadcast on the outdoor dining area will be limited so as not
to disturb occupants of nearby residences or likely future residences.

337

12

The City Record

March 16, 2011

(2) Entertainment Uses. In considering approval of a Conditional Use Permit application for an entertainment, or
other use described in paragraph L of division (b)(2) of Section 343.11, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall determine
whether the proposal meets the following criteria, in addition to the criteria of division (d) of this section.
A. No such use will be located within five hundred (500) feet of another such use if either use is located in a Local
Retail or Residential District.
B. The use will not be located within five hundred (500) feet of a residential district or day care center, kindergarten,
elementary or secondary school, public library, church, playground, public or nonprofit recreation center or community
center.
C. If the use will be located within five hundred (500) feet of the uses listed in paragraph B of this division, the Board
determines that the proposed use, by virtue of its nature and location, will not adversely affect nearby residential areas
or other protected uses listed in paragraph B of this division. The Board may impose any conditions deemed necessary
to prevent potential adverse impacts.
D. The place or building in which any such entertainment use is operated is sufficiently sound-insulated to confine the
noise to the premises, unless the Board determines that noise not confined to the premises will not adversely impact
occupants of nearby properties.
Section 343.15 Restaurants, Bars, Taverns, Nightclubs and Accessory Entertainment Uses
Restaurants, bars, taverns, and nightclubs, as defined in this code and as permitted in Business Districts, as well as
entertainment provided as an accessory use or activity in other businesses, are subject to the following regulations as
well as the licensing regulations of Chapter 690 and other applicable provisions of the Codified Ordinances.
(a) Entertainment. In Local Retail Districts, entertainment provided in any restaurant, tavern or bar as well as an
accessory use or activity in any business, shall be limited to unamplified acoustic musical instruments or other entertainment that produces noise levels no greater than that produced by unamplified acoustic musical instruments. In all
zoning districts, the space in which the entertainment will take place shall be situated, designed and configured in a
manner that ensures that no noise or vibration emanating from such use will be perceptible on the premises of any Residential District or dwelling unit existing at the time of the establishment of the use other than a dwelling unit located
in the same building as the entertainment activity. In all zoning districts, noise associated with such entertainment
shall be regulated by the provisions of Sections 605.10 and 683.01.
(b) Nightclubs. No nightclub shall be located within five hundred (500) feet of a Residential District, measured in a
straight line from property line to property line. In reviewing a request for a Variance from this regulation, the Board
of Zoning Appeals shall consider the impacts of the nightclub use on any current or likely future residential use in the
nearby Residential District. The Board may impose any conditions deemed necessary to prevent potential adverse
impacts.
(c) Outdoor Dining Patios. An outdoor dining patio area that is located within two hundred (200) feet of a Residential
District or dwelling unit shall be permitted as a Conditional Use in accordance with the provisions of Section 329.041. No
music performance shall take place and no sound amplifying device shall be operated on any outdoor dining patio or
other outdoor area or shall be directed to be heard from such areas between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(d) Applicability. The regulations of this section for Local Retail Business Districts shall also apply to Limited Retail
Districts and to nonconforming business uses in Residential Districts. For all other zoning districts, the regulations of
this section applicable to General Retail Business Districts shall apply.
Section 3. That existing Section 325.570, Research Laboratory, is renumbered to new “Section 325.571” and that existing Section 325.571, Rock Crushing, is renumbered to new “Section 325.573”.
Section 4. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are supplemented by enacting new Sections 690.01 to
690.13 and 690.99 to read as follows:
Chapter 690
Entertainment Venues
Section 690.01 Definitions
The terms used in this chapter shall have the following meanings unless another meaning is clearly apparent in the
language or context:
(a) “Public Dance” means any dance that is attended or patronized by the public with or without the payment of a fee
or other valuable consideration, including restaurant dancing. “Public Dance” does not mean or include exhibitions or
performances in which the persons paying for admission do not participate or activities in an establishment whose primary purpose is to provide lessons for persons contracting for dance instruction and not for the entertainment of the general public, or dance classes given by a business whose primary purpose is to provide lessons for persons contracting for
dance instruction.
(b) “Amusement device” as used in this Chapter means:
(1) any computer, electronic and/or video machine, or mechanical device, including pinball machine, which, upon the
insertion or deposit of a coin, slug, token or disc, permits a person or operator using such device, whether or not registering a score, to secure some amusement, enjoyment, entertainment or relaxation by the use of such machine or device.
(2) any computer, machine, game or apparatus including individual computer terminal screens which may be operated by the public generally to participate in any contest or promotion for prizes conducted in connection with the sale of
consumer products or services.
(3) “Amusement device” does not include music amplification, billiard or pool tables as regulated by this Chapter, or
picture arcades or live viewing booths as regulated by Chapter 699.
(c) “Applicant” means the person who files an application to operate an entertainment venue and in whose name the
license is issued.
(d) “Billiards” as used in this chapter, means any of the several games played on a table surrounded by an elastic ledge
or cushions, with balls which are impelled by a cue, and includes all forms of the game known as pool. “Billiard Room”
means any public place wherein the game of billiards is permitted to be played, but shall not include a school.
(e) “Bowling Alley” means a building or room containing a smooth, level lane used for bowling.
(f) “Entertainment Venue” means a building, room, or premises containing or providing for public dance, two or more
amusement devices as defined in division (b)(1) of Section 690.01, any number of amusement devices as defined in division (b)(2) of Section 690.01, billiards, bowling alleys, pinball machines, or roller rinks; and any restaurant, coffee house,
night club, or other similar place where refreshments or entertainment is provided for the general public, including out-

338

March 16, 2011

The City Record

13

door patios that are a part of those places, and that uses music amplification; whether or not such building, room or
premises have other business purposes of any nature whatsoever.
(g) “Music Amplification” means any vocal or instrumental music, or mechanically produced music, which is augmented, rebroadcast or amplified through the use of electrically-powered microphones or speakers, specifically excluding television sets.
(h) “Operator” means any person or organization that owns, controls, operates, promotes or maintains or knowingly
engages in conduct that facilitates the operation of an entertainment venue.
(i) “Pinball Machine” means any machine or device commonly or popularly known as a pinball machine and any
machine or device which registers a score and in which or on which a person can shoot or roll, either manually or
mechanically, one or more pellets, balls or marbles upon the insertion or deposit of a coin, slug, token or disc or upon the
payment of a consideration.
(j) “Person” means any individual, receiver, assignee, firm, co-partnership, joint venture, corporation, company, joint
stock company, limited liability company, association, society, or any group of individuals acting as a unit, whether
mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise.
(k) “Private Dance” means and includes any dance or event that is not readily accessible to the public and which is
not held and conducted for a profit, either directly or indirectly, and which requires no monetary payment or contribution from any of the persons admitted.
(l) “Roller Rink” means a building, room, enclosure, premises, place or establishment in the City where roller skating
is offered to the general public upon payment of a fee or charge.
(m) “School” means any educational institution, public, private, secular or parochial, which offers instruction of high
school grade or lower.
(n) “Security Protection After Dark” means the provision of at least one uniformed sworn law enforcement officer or
at least one uniformed and licensed security guard continuously on the premises of the entertainment venue during the
period of 9:00 PM until one hour after the closing hour of the entertainment venue as provided in Section 690.07.
Section 690.02 License Required
All entertainment venues shall be licensed for such purpose in the manner provided in this Chapter. No person shall
permit any room or building owned or controlled by him to be used for the purpose of an entertainment venue unless the
same has been licensed.
Section 690.03 License Application; Issuance; Rejection; Appeal
(a) Every person desiring a license to operate an entertainment venue shall make application with payment of appropriate fees to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses. Each application shall be in the form prescribed by the
Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses, and shall contain the following:
(1) if an individual, the name, residence, occupation, telephone number, e-mail address, and age of the applicants;
(2) if a firm or partnership, the name or names, residences, telephone numbers, e-mail addresses, and occupations of
the manager and each member of the firm or partnership;
(3) if a corporation, the names of its officers and managers;
(4) the location of the entertainment venue, including the street and number of all entrances;
(5) a detailed floor plan showing the arrangement of the rooms and amount of floor space to be used for each type of
entertainment venue purpose, including furniture, fixtures and equipment;
(6) a listing of the type of entertainment being licensed (i.e., public dance, amusement devices, billiard rooms, bowling alleys, music amplification, pinball machines, or roller rinks);
(7) the application for an amusement device license shall include the name, description, model number and serial number of each amusement device on the premises and any other device on the premises necessary to the operation of the
amusement device.
(8) the application for an amusement device license under division (b)(2) of Section 690.01, shall also include the following:
A. Supporting documentation from a Certified Independent Regulatory Compliance Test Laboratory verifying that the
amusement device and the software is not a game of chance, gambling device, gaming device or other device that is prohibited from operation in the State of Ohio under any provision of the Revised Code.
B. The name and address of any and all persons, businesses or organizations that provide games, computer software,
equipment or services or operate devices linked to the applicant’s amusement devices or to devices necessary to operate
the entertainment devices, whether any such provisions are sold, leased or licensed.
The application shall include such other information as the Commissioner may require. Such application shall be filed
at least thirty days prior to the time of granting such license. If alcohol is proposed to be served as part of the business,
the application shall include a copy of the applicant’s liquor permit.
(b) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall transmit such application for inspection and investigation
to the Director of Building and Housing, the Director of Public Health, the Division of Fire, the Division of Police, and
the Director of Public Safety, each of whom shall, after such inspection and investigation as they may deem necessary,
make a report with recommendation (including reasons therefore) for the approval or disapproval of such application.
The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall issue a license, upon approval of the application and payment of
the proper fee provided in this Chapter; but no such application shall be approved in which the entertainment venue does
not comply with all of the provisions of existing ordinances including without limitation those ordinances governing
sanitary conditions, fire protection and health regulations. The application shall be rejected if the reports submitted
show that any of the persons named in the application have previously been connected with an entertainment venue
where the license has been suspended or revoked; or that it is not a safe and proper place for the purpose for which it is
contemplated to be used. No permits shall be issued to any person to whom a permit formerly issued has been forfeited,
or who has been convicted of a felony.
(c) The person operating or conducting the business shall have a continuing duty to inform the Commissioner as to
changes in the information required in this section. No person shall operate or conduct an entertainment venue at any
time unless the information on file with the Division of Assessments and Licenses is current and accurately reports the
licensing information at the time of operation.
(d) The entertainment venue shall be open to inspection and viewing of operations by the Division of Assessments and
Licenses, Department of Building and Housing, Department of Public Health, the Police Division, and Fire Division personnel at all times that the venue is open for business. No person shall fail to immediately permit entry to any such officials.

339

The City Record

14

March 16, 2011

(e) If the application is issued, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall include the following information on the face of the license: the expiration date, the zoning classification of the entertainment venue, the date of
issuance of the occupancy permit for the entertainment venue, the square footage of entertainment
venue usage approved in the license, the Police District in which the entertainment venue is located, the hours of operation for the entertainment venue as determined under Section 690.07, and an Assessments and Licenses telephone number that can be called for further information regarding the license.
(f) If the application is rejected, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the reasons for rejection and shall have
the right to appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals established pursuant to Charter Section 76-6. Written notice of the
appeal shall be filed with the Board and at the offices of the Director of Law within ten days after notice of rejection.
The Board shall have power, after full hearing, to affirm, modify or reverse the finding of the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses and the judgment of such Board shall be final. No applicant to whom a license has been refused shall
make further application until a period of at least six months has elapsed since the last previous rejection.
No license shall be granted to a person under twenty-one years of age, or to any person who is not a citizen of the United States.
No license shall be renewed without a re-inspection of the premises.
Section 690.04 Exemptions
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to private dances, a dance sponsored and operated or conducted by a
school, or a dance, billiards or amusement devices under Section 690.01(b)(1) on the campus of colleges, universities or
career training centers.
Section 690.05 License Fee; Display; Transfer
Biennial License Fee.
(1) Fees Due for Each Venue Type. The applicant shall pay one or more license fees for each venue type to be operated by the applicant as provided for in division (2) of this section. There is a base application fee in addition to specific
venue type fees and such fees shall be non-refundable except as otherwise provided by this section. All money received
by way of license fees and permits shall be paid into the General Fund of the City.
(2) Entertainment Venue Fees:
Base Fee

$200

Public Dance (total dance area of
400 square feet or less)

base fee,

Public Dance (total dance area of 401 square feet
to 2500 square feet)

base fee plus $100.00.

Public Dance (total dance area of more than
2500 square feet)

base fee plus $150.00

Two or more Amusement Devices under division
(b)(1) of Section 690.01

base fee, plus $40.00 per device over 2

Amusement Device under division (b)(2) of
Section 690.01

$1,000.00 plus $300.00 per device

Billiards

base fee, plus $20.00 per table over 1

Bowling Alley

base fee, plus $20.00 per lane over 8

Restaurant, coffee houses, night clubs or other
similar place that uses music amplification

base fee, plus $75.00 for an outdoor area

Roller Rink

base fee

(b) Display. The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall indicate the venue type(s) that the applicant is
authorized to operate. A license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be displayed at all times in a conspicuous place in the entertainment venue for which it is issued.
(c) After Acquired Devices. Where the applicant acquires additional devices during the license year, the applicant
shall make a supplemental application to the Commissioner and pay such additional fees due as if such after acquired
devices were held at the time of initial application.
(d) Refund of Fee. Upon the voluntary surrender of an entertainment venue license, within 120 days after the issuance
of the license, one-half of the fee shall be returned to the owner of the license, payable out of the fund into which the
license fee has been paid.
(e) Transfer. No transfer of a license either as to person or place, shall be permitted except with the consent of the
Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses, which shall be endorsed upon the license. The applicant applying for the
transfer of any license must make a new application and pay a new fee and shall comply with all the provisions of this
chapter.
Section 690.06 License Suspension; Revocation
(a) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses may, at any time, suspend, or revoke, any license granted under
the provisions of this chapter upon proof that the entertainment venue or the applicant:
(1) Was declared a nuisance by the Director of Public Safety under Section 630.02; or
(2) Violated any of the provisions of this chapter; or
(3) Violated any other provision of the Codified Ordinances or the Ohio Revised Code, including without limitation
noise ordinances, liquor permits and gambling laws; or

340

March 16, 2011

The City Record

15

(4) Has been convicted of any felony reasonably related to the ability of the applicant to operate and maintain the
premises in a proper manner; or
(5) Permitted the solicitation of patrons on the premises for prostitution or any other unlawful act where the applicant or the applicant’s employee or agent knew or should have known of such conduct; or
(6) Failed to furnish any and all data, information and records related to the operation of the establishment, when
such has been requested by the Division of Police or other authorized official of the City; or
(7) Failed to maintain any and all of the general qualifications applicable to the initial issuance of a license as set
forth in this Chapter; or
(8) Failed to adequately supervise and monitor the conduct of the employees, patrons and others on the premise or on
any property owned or leased by the applicant, including but not limited to parking lots and parking areas, or on any
parking lots or areas which may be lawfully used by patrons of an entertainment venue in order to protect the safety
and well-being of the general public and of those utilizing the premises; or
(9) Failed to maintain (including without limitation keeping the specified area free of bottles, cups, trash and other
debris) all applicant property lying within adjoining rights of way (including sidewalks and tree lawns) within four
hours of the close of business as defined in Section 690.07;
(b) Whenever any license has been suspended or revoked, no refund of any portion of the fee paid shall be made, and
at least six months shall elapse from the time a license is revoked before another license shall be given to conduct an
entertainment venue in the same premises.
(c) In lieu of license suspension or revocation, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses may instead replace the
license with a probationary license which shall be conditioned upon security protection after dark at the entertainment
venue.
(d) Before suspending or revoking a license issued under this Chapter, the Commissioner shall give the licensee at
least ten days written notice of the intent to suspend or revoke the license and reason for the suspension or revocation.
The licensee may appeal from such order in the manner provided in Section 690.03.
Section 690.07 Hours of Operation; Exceptions
(a) All entertainment venues shall be closed on or before the later of: (a) 1:00 a.m., or (b) at the time required by any
applicable liquor permit.
(b) No person shall permit an entertainment venue to remain open after the hours specified in division (a) of this section.
Section 690.08 Minors Prohibited
(a) No person conducting an entertainment venue, nor any manager or other agent of such person shall permit any
person to attend or take part in any entertainment venue providing for billiards, or amusement devices under division
(b)(2) of Section 690.01 who has not reached the age of eighteen years. No person shall represent himself or herself to
have reached the age of eighteen years in order to obtain admission to an entertainment venue providing billiards, or
amusement devices under division (b)(2) of Section 690.01 or be permitted to remain therein when such person in fact is
under eighteen years of age.
(b) The person operating an entertainment venue providing, billiards, or amusement devices under division (b)(2) of
Section 690.01 shall require each person seeking admission to provide identification showing his or her age. Any person
who shall by affirmative misrepresentation of age obtain admission to or permission to remain in any entertainment
venue providing billiards, or amusement devices under division (b)(2) of Section 690.01 in violation of this division shall
be guilty of a violation of this Chapter.
Section 690.09 Restrictions
Any person conducting an entertainment venue or any agent or employee of such person shall enforce these restrictions:
(a) Dancing contests commonly known as marathon dances shall not be permitted;
(b) Any public dance that is primarily for persons 21 years of age or younger shall meet the following requirements:
(1) Obtain the necessary permits under Chapter 690.
(2) Shall have an adequate number of trained and licensed security personnel as determined by the Director of Public
Safety, present during and following each dance.
(3) No person shall serve, sell or otherwise deliver alcohol on any part of the premises where minors are permitted or
to which such minor would have access. Any alcohol stored in the area where minors are permitted or to which minors
may have access shall be secured in a manner which shall ensure that the alcohol is neither visible or accessible, and
the means of securing the alcohol shall be approved by the Director of Public Safety.
(c) Unless specifically permitted under the Zoning Code, all amplified sound must originate within the structure housing a business which holds an entertainment venue license and shall not be conveyed outside the structure by any
means, including but not limited to exterior loudspeakers, open windows, open doors except entrance doors when opened
as needed for ingress and egress, or any other means which conveys or facilitates amplified music being conveyed from
inside the confines of the building to the outside of the building.
(d) Outdoor l patios shall be operated in the following manner: (i) maximum occupancy shall not exceed one person
per 3.5 square feet of patio area; (ii) exterior lighting shall not disturb occupants of nearby residences; (iii) occupancy
for purpose of food or beverage service is prohibited during the hours of 1:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m.; and (iv) outdoor music
amplification is prohibited during the hours of 1:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(e) Parking lots owned or leased for entertainment venue parking shall be posted with “No trespassing signs” prohibiting trespassing by any persons, other than owners or lessees or passengers of vehicles legally parked on said lots,
between the hours of 12:00 a.m midnight to 6:00 a.m.
Section 690.10 Restrictions; Amusement Devices
Any person conducting an entertainment venue providing amusement devices under division (b)(2) of Section 690.01
or any agent or employee of such person shall enforce these restrictions:
(a) The operator shall require a photo identification of every person to whom any prize is given in connection with
the amusement device and shall record the person’s name and home address and a description of the prize, and the stated dollar value of the prize.

341

16

The City Record

March 16, 2011

(b) The operator shall post in a conspicuous place on the premises in the room where the amusement devices are located in no less than twenty point type:
(1) Each separate prize that may be given and each separate dollar amount that might be given.
(2) The odds as stated in the application filed with the Commissioner as required in Section 690.03.
(3) A complete statement of the rules and conditions pertaining to the giving of any prizes or anything of value to any
person, whether or not the determination the giving of the thing of value or the delivery of the thing of value occurs
totally within the confines of the premises or requires some event, occurrence or happening at another location.
(4) On each machine, a sticker, if issued by the Commissioner indicating that it has been registered by the operator
with the Commissioner and bearing a unique identification number for that machine.
(c) Each applicant shall maintain the name, address and prize amount of all sweepstakes prize winners. Each applicant shall file with the Division of Assessments and Licenses a complete list of sweepstakes winners on a monthly basis
on or before the tenth day of each preceding month on forms provided by the Commissioner.
(d) The operator shall have present on the premises at all times when the premises are open to the public at least one
adult who is 21 years of age or over who has not been convicted of any felony or of any misdemeanor involving the operation of a sweepstakes terminal café or involving physical violence, gambling activities, controlled substances, alcoholic beverages, minors or any crime involving moral turpitude.
(e) No operator shall fail to maintain order and quiet on the premises so as not to violate the public peace.
(f) No persons under the age of eighteen years shall be permitted on the premises.
(g) The operator shall keep a complete set of all records of the operations at the premises at all times, including all
federal, state and local tax records, all records of payments and receipts, all records of expenses and revenues of the
operation, all banking records, all contracts, leases and agreements affecting the premises, equipment and operation, all
personnel records, and all other records pertaining to the business. Records more than 10 years old are exempt from this
requirement.
Section 690.11 Temporary Permit; Fees
No person who is not licensed by this Chapter shall hold a public dance within the limits of the City without having
first obtained a temporary dance permit from the Director of Public Safety. Application for the permit must be made at
least seven days before the public dance authorized is to be held. The fees for the temporary dance permit shall be as
$100.00. No more than two temporary dance permits may be issued an operator nor shall any room, place or space receive
more than two temporary dance permits without having an entertainment venue license.
Section 690.12 License Duration
(a) All licenses granted on or before May 1, 2011, for billiard rooms, bowling alleys, coin-operated amusement devices,
music, public dance, or rolling rinks shall continue in effect until their respective expiration dates and shall serve in lieu
of entertainment venue licenses issued pursuant to this chapter; provided, however, that such licenses shall continue in
effect for additional periods, not to exceed 6 months, until the applicable date for an entertainment venue license arises
pursuant to the provisions of division(b) of this section.
(b) All entertainment venue licenses shall be renewed (and the licenses described in division (a) of this section shall
be replaced) in accordance with the following renewal dates: licenses in the First Police District shall be renewed on
October 31 of odd numbered years; licenses in the Second Police District shall be renewed on December 31 of odd numbered years; licenses in the Third Police District shall be renewed on June 30 of odd numbered years; licenses in the
Fourth Police District shall be renewed on August 31 of odd numbered years; and licenses in the Fifth Police District
shall be renewed on March 31 of odd numbered years.
Section 690.13 Gambling Devices Prohibited
Nothing in this chapter shall in any way be construed to authorize, license or permit any gambling device whatsoever, or any amusement device that has been judicially determined to be a gambling device or that is prohibited by any
present or future law.
Section 690.99 Penalty
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter for which no other penalty is provided, is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor on the first offense and misdemeanor of the fourth degree on the second and each subsequent
offense.
Section 5. That the following:
Sections 343.01 and 343.11, as amended by Ordinance No. 729-09, passed July 1, 2009, and
Section 349.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 1045-89, passed March 26, 1990
are amended to read as follows:
Section 343.01 Local Retail Business District
(a) “Local Retail District” means a business district in which such uses are permitted as are normally required for the
daily local retail business needs of the residents of the locality only.
(b) Permitted Buildings and Uses. The following buildings and uses are permitted in a Local Retail Business District;
and no buildings or premises shall hereafter be erected, altered, used, arranged or designed to be used, in whole or in
part for other than one or more of the following specified uses, and there shall be no display of goods in front of a setback building line:
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Zoning Code, all uses permitted in the Multi-Family District and as regulated in that district, except that “kindergartens, day nurseries and children’s boarding homes” shall be permitted without
the requirement for a specified setback from an adjoining premises in a Residence District not used for a similar purpose.
(2) Retail business for local or neighborhood needs to the following limited extent:
A. The sale of baked goods, confectionery, dairy products, delicatessen, fruits, vegetables, groceries, meats.
B. The sale of dry goods and variety merchandise, excluding department stores.
C. The sale of men’s and boy’s furnishings, shoes, hats, women’s ready-to-wear, furs, millinery, apparel, accessories.
D. The sale of china, floor covering, hardware, household appliances, radios, paint, wallpaper, materials and objects
for interior decorating.
E. The sale of books, magazines and newspapers, including adult book stores subject to Section 347.07, cigars, drugs,
flowers, gifts, music, photographic goods, sporting goods, stationery.

342

March 16, 2011

The City Record

17

F. Subject to the regulations of Section 343.15, restaurants, bars, taverns, and other eating places for the sale of food
and beverages for consumption on the premises or for take-out service, and accessory outdoor dining patios if permitted
as a Conditional Use in accordance with the provisions of Section 329.041. “Nightclubs” are excluded from this provision.
G. Service establishments: barber or beauty shops, custom tailors, laundry agencies, self-service laundries, hand laundries, shoe repair, ice stations and dry cleaning, pressing or tailoring shops in which not more than five persons are
engaged in such work or business at any one time, and in which only nonexplosive and nonflammable solvents are used
and no work is done on the premises for retail outlets elsewhere and pet shops, provided noise and odors are effectively
confined to the premises. As used in this division (b)(2)G., “pet shops” does not include businesses which board dogs and
cats overnight or any pet hospital.
(3) Business offices: banks, real estate, insurance and other similar offices, and the offices of the architectural, clerical, engineering, legal, dental, medical or other established recognized professional, but excluding morticians, undertakers and funeral directors, in which only such personnel are employed as are customarily required for the practice of
such business or profession.
(4) Automotive services: public parking garages and parking lots.
(5) Charitable institutions not for correctional purposes.
(6) Signs: permitted in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 350.
(7) Other main uses: any other neighborhood store, shop or service similar to the uses listed in this division in type of
goods or services sold, in business hours, in the number of persons or cars to be attracted to the premises and in effect
upon the adjoining Residence Districts.
(8) Accessory uses, only to the extent necessary normally accessory to the limited types of neighborhood service use
permitted under this division.
Section 343.11 General Retail Business Districts
(a) “General retail business” means an enterprise for profit for the convenience and service of, and dealing directly
with, and accessible to, the ultimate consumer; neither injurious to adjacent premises or to the occupants thereof by reason of the emission of cinders, dust, fumes, noise, odors, refuse matter, smoke, vapor or vibrations; nor dangerous to life
or property. It includes buildings or spaces necessary to a permitted use for making or storing articles to be sold at retail
on the premises. Except as provided in division (b) of this section, it does not include any establishment which supplies
a retail outlet other than that on the premises, or any building or use specifically mentioned as permitted only in a SemiIndustry or Industry District.
(b) Permitted Buildings and Uses. The following buildings and uses are permitted in a General Retail Business District; and no buildings or premises shall hereafter be erected, altered, used, arranged or designed to be used, in whole or
in part for other than one or more of the following specified uses:
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Zoning Code, all uses permitted and as regulated in any Local Retail Business District.
(2) All retail business uses and buildings specified in division (b) of Section 343.01, and uses and buildings to provide
for:
A. The sale of food and beverages of all kinds, including sale for consumption on the premises;
B. The sale of general merchandise, including sale in department stores;
C. The sale of apparel of all kinds;
D. The sale of furniture and household goods, including furniture and accessory furniture storage;
E. The sale of other goods or merchandise;
F. Restaurants, bars, taverns, and other eating places for the sale of food and beverages for consumption on the
premises or for take-out service, and “nightclubs,” as defined in this code, all subject to the regulations of Section 343.15,
and accessory outdoor dining patios if permitted as a Conditional Use in accordance with the provisions of Section
329.041 and Section 343.15.
G. Service establishments: service establishments permitted in a Local Retail Business District without limitation on
the number of persons engaged in such work or business; mortuary or undertaking establishment; printing shop, provided not more than five persons are engaged in such work or business; research laboratory, radio or television station,
telephone exchange or transformer station, provided all buildings and structures except fences and barriers are located
not less than fifteen feet from a Residence District; hospital, sanitarium, convalescent home, rest home, nursing home,
orphanage or home for the infirm or aged, provided that all main buildings are not less than fifteen feet from any adjoining premises in a Residence District not used for a similar purpose; cat and dog hospital or pet shop, provided noise and
odors are effectively confined to the premises.
H. Business offices and services: in addition to the uses permitted in Local Retail Districts, office buildings, banks,
business colleges, private trade schools.
I. Automotive services: in addition to the uses permitted in Local Retail Districts:
1. Motor vehicle service station, as defined in Section 325.486, and meeting the provisions of Section 343.14.
2. Car wash, as defined in Section 325.111, and meeting the provisions of Section 343.14.
3. Motor vehicle service garage, as defined in Section 325.487, and meeting the provisions of Section 343.14.
4. Motor vehicle sales facility, as defined in Section 325.485, except for vehicles exceeding 6,000 pounds of gross vehicle weight.
J. House trailer or travel trailer park, as defined in Section 3733.01 of the Revised Code, when approved by the Board
of Zoning Appeals after public hearing, and when used and maintained in conformity with any conditions specified in
such approval.
K. Signs: signs permitted in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 350.
L. Entertainment venues as defined by Section 690.01, nightclubs, or a social, sport or recreational center. Any such use
that is operated as a business and as the principal use of a place shall be permitted only as a Conditional Use in accordance with the provisions of Section 329.041, An outdoor dining area that is accessory to any such entertainment, amusement or recreation use shall be permitted as a Conditional Use in accordance with the provisions of section 329.041 and
343.15.
M. Adult entertainment uses subject to the regulations of Section 347.07.
N. Transportation services: railroad station; public service station; bus passenger station; bus terminal, provided the
roadway of the street upon which the bus entrance or exit is located is at least forty-four feet wide between curbs.
O. Office, display or sales space of a wholesale, jobbing or distributing establishment and specifically mentioned as
permitted only in a less restricted district, in connection with which not more than twenty-five percent of the floor area

343

18

The City Record

March 16, 2011

of the building or part of the building occupied by the establishment is used for making, assembling, remodeling, repairing, altering, finishing or refinishing its products or merchandise and provided that:
1. Any resulting cinders, dust, fumes, noise, odors, refuse matter, smoke, vapor or vibration is effectively confined to
the premises.
2. The ground floor premises facing upon and visible from a major street upon which the premises abut shall be used
only for entrances, offices or display.
3. Adequate off-street loading and unloading facilities are provided and so designed that any standing vehicles using
them shall be within the property lines and be either not visible from streets within Retail Business, Local Retail Business or Residence District, or not nearer than fifty feet to such streets.
P. Retail poultry business: either as a main use or as an accessory use, including the storing and killing of poultry or
game to be sold entirely at retail upon the premises and directly to the ultimate consumer, provided that the enterprise
is conducted in strict compliance with all applicable statutes, laws, rules and regulations, including those requiring ratproofing, and that adjacent premises or the occupants thereof are not injured by reason of the emission of dust, odor,
smoke or noise or the accumulation of refuse or offal, and provided further that the buildings in which the killing, storing and selling are done are either detached masonry structures or part of a masonry building used entirely for the handling of poultry and/or game.
1. A detached masonry structure used for slaughtering or for storing of live poultry shall have not less than 100 square
feet of floor area and shall be located at least ten feet from any other building or part thereof on the same lot which is
used for human habitation, or as a place where other food is prepared, placed, kept or sold.
2. Where the slaughtering room is part of a masonry building used entirely for the handling of poultry and/or game,
such slaughtering room shall be separated from the sales or storage room by a solid masonry wall in which there may
be only one opening not greater than four square feet in size, located not less than four feet above the floors of both
rooms, equipped with either a self-closing window or self-closing door. Such slaughtering room shall be entered only
from outside the building.
3. In either case, such slaughtering room shall be used only for killing, flicking and dressing and shall be not less than
twenty-five feet from the boundary of the premises upon which it is located. All offal and refuse must be kept in covered
containers within such slaughtering room until removed from the premises.
Such slaughtering room and every building, room or space used for storage or sale of poultry or game in connection
therewith shall be not less than 300 feet from any Residence District, church, school, playground, library or building of
Institutional H Occupancy classification.
Q. Tattooing and body piercing. As used in this division:
1. “Body Piercing” means the piercing of any part of the body by someone other than a physician licensed under Chapter 4731 of the Revised Code, who utilizes a needle or other instrument for the purpose of inserting an object into the
body for non-medical purposes; body piercing includes ear piercing except when the ear piercing procedure is performed
on the ear with an ear piercing gun.
2. “Tattoo” means any method utilizing needles or other instruments by someone other than a physician licensed under
Chapter 4731 of the Revised Code, to permanently place designs, letters, scrolls, figures, symbols or any other marks
upon or under the skin of a person with ink or any other substance resulting in an alteration of the appearance of the
skin.
R. kennels, either as a main use or an accessory use, provided that all odors, fumes, and noise be confined to the premises and the lot upon which the kennel is located is greater than one hundred (100) feet from a residence district.
1. Notwithstanding division (d)(3) of Section 329.03, the Board, on application for a use variance, may permit a Kennel in any use district.
2. The limitations stated in divisions (b) and (c) of Section 329.03 shall not apply when deciding whether to issue a use
variance for a Kennel, the Board shall evaluate the applicant Kennel’s probable impact on the overall tranquility of the
surrounding properties by considering all odors, noises, and fumes that will emanate from the lot on which the applicant
Kennel is located.
S. Any other building, use or service similar to the uses herein listed in the type of services or goods sold, in the number of persons or cars to be attracted to the premises or in the effect upon adjacent areas in more restricted use districts.
T. Any accessory use customarily incident to a use authorized by this section, except that no use specified in divisions
(b) and (c) of Section 345.04 as prohibited or permitted only by special permit in a General Industry District shall be permitted as an accessory use.
(3) Hotels.
(4) Motels.
(5) Charitable institutions, including correctional halfway houses, as regulated in Section 347.15; and notwithstanding any Section of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, the Cuyahoga County Youth Intervention Center, providing temporary detention and shelter for juveniles, to be located at East 93rd Street, and Quincy
Avenue.
Section 349.04
Required Parking Spaces
Accessory off-street parking spaces shall be provided and maintained in accordance with the requirements set forth
in the following table:
Uses

Required Accessory Off-Street Parking Spaces

(a) Residential Uses
One-family or two-family dwellings
and Class A Multiple Dwellings

One for each dwelling unit.

Rooming houses, dormitories, fraternity
and sorority houses, YMCA, YWCA
es.

One for each four beds, plus one for the owner, operator or manager living
on the premises, plus one for each other employee, expected on premis-

Housing for the elderly

One for each three dwelling units.

344

March 16, 2011

The City Record

Hotels

One for each dwelling unit, plus one for each four guest rooms,
plus one for each three employees.

Motels and tourist homes

One for each guest room, plus one for each two employees.

Tourist parks or camps

One for each family unit, plus one for each two employees.

Trailer camps

One for each trailer.

19

(b) Accessory Uses in Residence District
Home occupations:
(1) Medical or dental offices

Three for each establishment.

(2) Clergyman, architect, engineer,
attorney or similar professional offices

Two for each establishment.

Farms, truck-gardens, nurseries, stables
where sales are made on premises

Total parking area equal to twenty-five percent of the lot area devoted to
sales.

(c) Schools
Day nurseries, children’s boarding homes,
kindergartens, elementary grade and
junior high schools

One for each two staff members and other employees. See also
requirements for auditoriums, gymnasiums and stadiums.

Senior high schools

One for each two staff members and other employees, plus one for each
twelve seats in a classroom based on planned classroom capacity.
See also requirements for auditoriums, gymnasiums and stadiums.

Trade, vocational business and dancing
schools; colleges and universities

One for each two employees, plus one for each ten seats in a classroom
based on planned classroom capacity. See also requirements for
auditoriums, gymnasiums and stadiums.

(d) Institutional Uses
Hospitals and sanitariums

One for each four beds, plus one for each three doctors, plus one for each
three employees.

Clinics, health and medical centers

One for each 200 square feet of gross floor area.

Institutions for children and the aged,
convalescent homes, rest homes, nursing
homes, day nurseries, orphanages

One for each staff member, including doctors and nurses, plus one for each
three other employees, plus one for each six beds.

Penal and correctional institutions

One for each 300 square feet of gross floor area.

(e) Places of Public Assembly
Airports and other aircraft landing and
servicing facilities

One for each 100 square feet of gross floor area, plus one for each three
employees.

Amusement parks, circuses, carnivals
and other outdoor amusement or
recreation uses

Total parking area equal to twice the total lot area devoted to such use.

Arenas, armories, assembly halls,
auditoriums, concert halls, convention
halls, dance halls, exhibition halls,
gymnasiums, indoor theaters, pool or
billiard halls, stadiums and similar
indoor amusement or recreation uses

One for each six seats or total parking area equal to three times the gross
floor area, whichever is greater.Where there are no fixed seats each
twenty-four inches of bench or pew shall be considered one seat. Where
there are no seats, benches or pews, each twenty square feet of ground
floor area usable for seating shall be considered one seat.

Bowling alleys

Seven for each lane.

Bus depots

One for each 100 square feet of gross floor area, plus one for each
two employees.

Clubs and lodges including fraternity
and sorority houses without sleeping
accommodations

Total parking area equal to one-half the gross floor area.

Commercial swimming pools

One for each employee, plus one for each forty square feet of pool surface
and deck area.

345

20

The City Record

March 16, 2011

Golf courses

Eight for each green.

Golf driving ranges

Two for each driving tee, plus one for each two employees.

Public libraries and museums

One for each four employees, plus one for each 1,200 square feet of gross
floor area.

Municipal swimming pools, outdoor

One for each employee.

Places of worship

One for each six seats.

Railroad passenger stations
employees.

One for each 100 square feet of gross floor area, plus one for each three

Rapid transit stations, except in the
Central Business District, as defined in
Section 325.12

One for each two employees expected on the premises during the largest
work shift period, plus one for each ten passengers entering the station
during the peak hour of operation.

Recreation and community centers

One for each 150 square feet of gross floor area, plus one for each
employee.

Outdoor theaters

Reservoir parking area with spaces equal in number to ten percent of the
capacity in vehicles.

(f) Retail Sales Uses
Bars, taverns, restaurants, luncheonettes,
cafeterias, boarding houses and other
eating places

One for each employee, plus one for each 100 square feet of floor area
devoted to patron use or one for each four seats based on maximum
seating capacity, whichever is greater, plus one for each eight seats
on an outdoor dining patio.

Nightclubs

Total parking area equal to three times the gross floor area or one
parking space for each four seats based on maximum seating capacity,
whichever is greater, plus one parking space for each eight seats on an
outdoor dining patio

Establishments for the sale of boats, farm
For establishments having less than 2,000 square feet of gross floor area,
implements, furniture, gymnasium
one for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area. For establishments
supplies, hospital supplies, office supplies,
having 2,000 square feet of gross floor area or more, one for each 700
machinery, major appliances, new
square feet of gross floor area.
automobiles
Establishments for the sale of china,
floor covering, hardware, household
equipment, paint, small appliances,
wallpaper and other retail sales items

For establishments having less than 2,000 square feet of gross floor area,
one for each 700 square feet of gross floor area. For establishments
having 2,000 square feet of gross floor area or more, one for each 500
square feet of gross floor area.

Food stores, supermarkets

For establishments having less than 2,000 square feet of gross floor area,
one for each 500 square feet of gross floor area. For establishments
having 2,000 square feet of gross floor area up to and including 4,000
square feet of gross floor area, one for each 300 square feet of gross floor
area. For establishments having over 4,000 square feet of gross floor
area, one for each 150 square feet of gross floor area.

Discount department stores

For establishments having over 10,000 square feet of gross floor area,
self-service facilities and four or more checkout booths, one for each
150 square feet of gross floor area.

Department stores

For establishments having 200,000 square feet of gross floor area or more,
one for each 300 square feet of gross floor area.

Nurseries or plant-husbandry, garden
supplies, agricultural produce and
other outdoor retail sales uses

Total parking area equal to twenty-five percent of the total lot area, plus
one for each two employees.

Gasoline service stations

One for each 100 square feet of gross floor area.

Used motor vehicle sales lots

Total parking area equivalent to twenty-five percent of the gross lot area.

Wholesale establishments

One for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area.

346

The City Record

March 16, 2011

21

(g) Retail Service Uses
Banks, governmental, business and
professional office buildings

One for each 500 square feet of gross floor area.

Medical or dental offices, and medical
or dental laboratories

Five for each doctor or dentist, plus one for each two employees; or one for
each 150 square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater.

Automobile laundries

One for each three employees, plus one for the owner or manager, and
reservoir spaces equal to five times the capacity of the laundry.

Mortuary and undertaking establishments

Eight for each slumber room, chapel or parlor or one for each 100 square
feet of floor area of assembly rooms whichever is greater, plus one for
each vehicle maintained on the premises.

Radio or television stations

One for each two employees. See also requirements for auditoriums.

Repair and service garages

One for each 500 square feet of gross floor area.

Other retail service uses

One for each 500 square feet of gross floor area.

(h) Public Service Uses
Police and fire stations, sewage treatment
plants, static transformer stations,
telephone exchanges, water filtration
plants, water reservoirs and other public
utilities

Two for each three employees.

(i) All Uses Permitted and Developed in a Shopping Center District
Bowling alleys

Eight for each lane, plus one for each two employees.

Indoor theaters

One for each two seats.

Medical and dental offices

Five for each physician or dentist, plus one for each two other employees,
or one for each 150 square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater.

Restaurants and other eating places

One for each two seats based on maximum seating capacity.

All other retail sales and services, uses.

Four and one-half for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area.

(j) All Uses Permitted in Industry Districts Only
Storage or warehouse uses

One for each two employees expected to be on the premises during the
largest work shift period or total parking area equivalent to ten percent
of the gross floor area, whichever is greater.

Junk, coal, lumber, contractors or other
open storage uses

One for each employee plus space equal to fifteen percent of the gross lot
area.

Other permitted industrial uses

One for each three employees expected to be on the premises during the
largest work shift period or total parking area equivalent to twentyfive percent of the gross floor area, whichever is lesser.

(k) Other Permitted Uses in All Districts

Parking spaces shall be provided on the same basis as required for the
most similar listed use.

As used in this chapter, “gross floor area” in the case of offices, merchandising or service types of uses means the total
floor area used or intended to be used for service to the people as customers, patrons, clients or patients, or as tenants,
including areas occupied by fixtures used for display or sale of merchandise.
It shall not mean floors or parts of floors used principally for nonpublic purposes, such as storage, incidental repair,
processing or packaging of merchandise, for show windows or for offices incidental to the management or maintenance
of stores or buildings when these areas are in separate rooms from the main use of the building. Floors or parts of floors
used principally for toilet or rest-rooms or for utilities or fitting rooms, dressing rooms and alteration rooms shall also
be excluded from the definition of “gross floor area”.
Section 6. That the following existing:
Sections 343.01 and 343.11, as amended by Ordinance No. 729-09, passed July 1, 2009,
Section 347.12, as amended by Ordinance No. 737-01, passed May 20, 2002, and
Section 349.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 1045-89, passed March 26, 1990
are repealed.
Section 7. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on City Planning, Legislation,
Finance.

347

22

The City Record

March 16, 2011

FIRST READING ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 333-11.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance expanding the Broadway Corridor Design Review District (Map Change No. 2353, Sheet Number 6).
Whereas, the City Planning Commission has determined that proposed expansion area of the Broadway Corridor
Design Review District, originally established by Ordinance Number 554-2000, meets the criteria for designation contained in Section 341.04 of Chapter 341 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, Ohio, now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Broadway Corridor Design Review District is hereby expanded and includes lands located along
Fleet Avenue between East 49th Street and East 71st Street as shown shaded on the attached map.
Section 2. That the designation of the area described in Section 1 hereof as the Broadway Corridor Design Review District shall be identified as Map Change Number 2353, Sheet Number 6, noted on the Building Zone Maps of the City of
Cleveland and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 334-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the Use and Area Districts of land located on Lorain Avenue and West 25th Street, bounded by
West 32nd Street, Gehring Street, Jay Avenue and Chatham Road to Local Retail Business and a ‘C’ Area District (Map
Change No. 2356, Sheet No. 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Avenue at its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the centerline
of West 24th Street;
Thence northwesterly along said prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Bridge
Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Bridge Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 25th
Street;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of West 25th Street to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation
of the centerline of Jay Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of West 26th
Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of West 26th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Bridge
Avenue;

348

March 16, 2011

The City Record

23

Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Bridge Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 28th
Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of West 28th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Lorain Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Lorain Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
easterly line of Sublot Number 3 in the David Pollock D.B. Subdivision as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 45, Page
453 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number
003-37-051;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line
thereof;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly
line of Sublot Number 5 in said David Pollock Subdivision, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 003-37-053;
Thence northerly along the northerly prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Penn Court;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Penn Court and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of West 32nd Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 32nd Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
southerly line of Sublot Number 215 in the Barber and Lord Subdivision as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 11, Page
26 in Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northeasterly along said southerly line and along its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of West 30th Street;
Thence continuing easterly along said easterly prolongation along the southerly lines of Sublot Number 138, 139, 140
& 141 and along the easterly prolongation of the southerly line of said Sublot Number 141 to its intersection with the centerline of West 29th Street;
Thence continuing along said easterly prolongation which is approximately 139 feet southerly of and parallel to the
southerly line of Lorain Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 28th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 28th Street to it intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
northerly line of Sublot Number 779 in said Barber & Lord Subdivision;
Thence northeasterly along said westerly prolongation of said northerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of West 26th Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of West 26th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Chatham Road;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Chatham Road and along its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 25th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 25th Street to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
centerline of Gehring Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Gehring Street and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Lorain Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Lorain Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
centerline of West 24th Street and the principal place of beginning,
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District and a ‘C’ Area District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2356,
Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

349

24

The City Record

March 16, 2011

Ord. No. 335-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height District of land on the north and south sides of Detroit west of W.
25th Street and east of West 32nd Street to Local Retail Business, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘2’ or a ‘3’ Height District (Map
Change No. 2358, Sheet No. 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of West 29th Street at its intersection with the centerline of Detroit Avenue;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 29th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Church Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Church Avenue and along its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 25th Street;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of West 25th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Detroit
Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 29th
Street and the principal place of beginning,
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District.
Section 2. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of West 29th Street at its intersection with the centerline of Detroit Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of
the westerly line of the C. Taylor Farm Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 2, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said westerly line and along its northwesterly prolongation to
its intersection with the centerline of vacated Vermont Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Vermont Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 28th
Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 28th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Washington
Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Washington Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 25th
Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of West 25th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Detroit
Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the easterly line of Sublot No. 2 in the Barber and Lord Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 11, Page 26 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line
thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of West 26th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 26th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of vacated Masterson Court;
Thence southwesterly along said prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of West 28th
Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 28th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Church Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Church Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 29th
Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 29th Street to the centerline of Detroit Avenue and the principal place
of beginning,
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District.
Section 3. That the Area District of lands bounded and described as follows;
Beginning in the centerline of West 29th Street at its intersection with the centerline of Detroit Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of
the westerly line of the C. Taylor Farm Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 2, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said westerly line and along its northwesterly prolongation to
its intersection with the centerline of vacated Vermont Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Vermont Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 28th
Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 28th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Washington
Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Washington Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 25th
Street;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of West 25th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Detroit
Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 29th
Street and the principal place of beginning,
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a ‘D’ Area District.
Section 4. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2358,
Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 5. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

350

March 16, 2011

The City Record

25

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

Ord. No. 336-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance to change the Use and Area Districts of lands located on Harvard Avenue east of East 131st Street to
Local Retail Business and a ‘C’ Area District. (Map Change No. 2354; Sheet No. 10).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Area Districts of lands bounded and described as
Beginning in the centerline of East 131st Street at its intersection with the centerline of Harvard Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Harvard Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
easterly line of Sublot Number 157 in the Mars Hill No. 2 Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 27, Page 24,
said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 138-05-020;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line
thereof;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 131st Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of East 131st Street to its intersection with the centerline of Harvard Avenue
and the principal place of beginning,
and aÏs shaded on the attached map is changed to Local Retail Business District and a ‘C’ Area District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2354,
Sheet No. 10 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

351

26

The City Record

March 16, 2011

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

Ord. No. 337-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use District of land on Detroit Avenue between W. 85th Street and W. 70th Street and land
at the northeast corner of Lake Avenue and Detroit shown shaded on the attached map to Local Retail Business (Map
Change Number 2346, Sheet 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lake Avenue at its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of
West 78th Street;
Thence northerly along said prolongation and said centerline of West 78th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line of Sublot No. 128 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot Nos. 29 and 30 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 17, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of Sublot No. 128, its Westerly prolongation and its Easterly prolongation
to its intersection with the centerline of West 76th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 76th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the
Southerly line of Sublot No. 14 in said W.J. Gordon’s Allotment;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of Sublot No. 14 to the Easterly line of Sublot No. 12 in said W.J. Gordon’s
Allotment;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 12 to the Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Mark J. Leiden by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200306190135 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being
known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-05-110;
Thence Northeasterly along said Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Mark J. Leiden and along the Southeasterly
line of land conveyed to James M. Flippen by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200306261552 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-05-109 and along the
Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Lawrence McGowan by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200210030258 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-05108 and along the Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Sever Magda, Transfer on death to Nathalia Sever, Lydia Sever
and Aaron Sever III by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200311200958 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said par-

352

March 16, 2011

The City Record

27

cel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-05-116 and along the Southeasterly lines of
Sublot Nos. 4 thru 7 inclusive in the Taft, Smith, Marshall and Wagner Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot No. 29 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 9, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Map Records to the Southwesterly
line of land conveyed to Jack E. Shultz by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200106150777 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-05-047;
Thence Southerly along said Southwesterly line of land conveyed to Jack E. Shultz to a Southeasterly line thereof;
Thence Northeasterly along said Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Jack E. Shultz to the Westerly right-of-way of
West 74th Street;
Thence Northeasterly to a Northwesterly corner of land conveyed to Neal T. Farrell and Marie Ann Farrell by deed
recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200310071285 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as
Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-05-028;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line of land conveyed to Neal T. and Marie Ann Farrell to an Easterly line of
land conveyed to Alevtina Cherepanova by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200309300998 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-05-046;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of land conveyed to Alevtina Cherepanova to the Southerly line of land conveyed to Joseph Bush by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200803190792 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said
parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-05-030;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of land conveyed to Joseph Bush and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 73rd Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 73rd Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the
Southerly line of land conveyed to ET & ST Investments LLC by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200810230070 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-07004;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of land conveyed to ET & ST Investments LLC to a Westerly line land conveyed to John O’Donnell by deed recorded in Volume 97-13544, Page 40 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel
also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-07-047;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of land conveyed to John O’Donnell to a Southerly line thereof;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of land conveyed to John O’Donnell to a Southwesterly line thereof;
Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly line of land conveyed John O’Donnell to the Westerly prolongation of
a Southerly line thereof;
Thence Easterly along the said Southerly line of land conveyed to John O’Donnell, its Westerly prolongation and its
Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 70th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 70th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Detroit Avenue;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the Northerly prolongation of
the Westerly line of land conveyed to McDonald’s Corporation by deed recorded in Volume 90-0643, Page 12 of Cuyahoga
County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-18-078;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of land conveyed to McDonald’s Corporation and its Northerly prolongation
to the Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Ibrali Company Inc. by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200003140679
of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 00218-002, 002-18-003 and 002-18-004;
Thence Southwesterly along said Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Ibrali Company Inc. to a Southwesterly line
thereof;
Thence Northwesterly along said Southwesterly line of land conveyed to Ibrali Company Inc. to the Northwesterly line
of Sublot No. 77 in the Jane E. Jones’ Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 29 as shown on the plat
recorded in Volume 13, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 77 and the Northwesterly lines of Sublot Nos. 78 thru
82 inclusive in said Jane E. Jones’ Allotment and its Southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of West 74th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 74th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the
Northerly line of Sublot No. 91 in said Jane E. Jones’ Allotment;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 91 to the Easterly line of Sublot No. 3 in the W.A. Poyer Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 29 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 13, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 3 to a Northerly line thereof;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 3 and its Westerly prolongation to the centerline of West 75th
Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 75th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the
Northerly line of Sublot No. 30 in said W.A. Poyer Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 30 and its Easterly prolongation to the Westerly line thereof;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 3 to a Northerly line of Sublot No. 3 in the proposed Henry
Grombaher Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 29;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 3 in said proposed Henry Grombaher Subdivision to a Westerly line thereof;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 3 to a Northerly line thereof;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 3 and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of West 77th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 77th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the
Northerly line of Sublot No. 32;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 32 and its Easterly prolongation to the Westerly line thereof;
Thence Southerly along the Westerly line of said Sublot No. 32 to its intersection with a line parallel with the centerline of Detroit Avenue and Northeasterly from the Northeasterly corner of Sublot No. 2 in Herman Junge’s Re-Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 29 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 21, Page 26 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records;
Thence Southwesterly and parallel to the centerline of Detroit Avenue to the said Northeasterly corner of Sublot No. 2;
Thence Southwesterly along the Northwesterly line of said Sublot No. 2 to the Westerly line thereof;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 2 to the Northerly line of Sublot No. 4 in Herman Junge’s ReSubdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 29 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 21, Page 26 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records;

353

28

The City Record

March 16, 2011

Thence Easterly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 4 and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 81st Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 81st Street to its intersection with the said centerline of Detroit
Avenue;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to its intersection the centerline of West 84th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 84th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the
Northerly line of land conveyed to Kerby O. Williams by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200502280683 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-20-073;
Thence Westerly along the said Northerly line of land conveyed to Kerby O. Williams and its Easterly prolongation
to the Westerly line of Sublot No. 2 in James F. Rhodes Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 29 as
shown on the plat recorded in Volume 15, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 1 to a Southerly line of the said James F. Rhodes Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Southerly line of the James F. Rhodes Subdivision to an Easterly line thereof;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line of the James F. Rhodes Subdivision to the Northerly line of Sublot No. 5 in
said James F. Rhodes Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 5 and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of West 85th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 85th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Detroit Avenue;
Thence Northeasterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 85th
Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 85th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the
Southerly lines of lands conveyed to Dennis Haydanka by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200104120435 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcels also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Numbers 001-08-047
and 001-08-151;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly lines of lands conveyed to Dennis Haydanka and their Westerly prolongation
to an Easterly line thereof;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of lands conveyed to Dennis Haydanka and the Easterly line of land conveyed to Opportunity Housing Cleveland, LLC by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200904020452 of Cuyahoga
County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-08-045;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of land conveyed to Opportunity Housing Cleveland, LLC to a Southerly line
of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by deed recorded in Volume 9079, Page 645 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records,
said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 001-08-015;
Thence Easterly along the said Southerly line of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland to a Northerly line of the Lot
Consolidation for James E. Larson of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 29 as shown on the plat recorded in
Volume 272, Page 37of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line of the said Lot Consolidation for James E. Larson to an Easterly line thereof;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line of said Lot Consolidation for James E. Larson to a Northerly line thereof;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line of said Lot Consolidation for James E. Larson and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 83rd Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 83rd Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the
Southerly line of land conveyed to Luz Maria Santos by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200905220042 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-01-030 to
an Easterly line thereof;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of land conveyed to Luz Maria Santo and its Westerly prolongation to an
Easterly line thereof;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of land conveyed to Luz Maria Santos to a Southerly line thereof;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of land conveyed to Luz Maria Santos to an Easterly line thereof;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of land conveyed to Luz Maria Santos to a Southerly line of land conveyed
to Donnell M. Rogers by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200601110701 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said
parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-01-028;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of land conveyed to Donnell M. Rogers to the Easterly line of the J. H.
Hardy Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 29 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 7, Page 10
of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of the J. H. Hardy Subdivision to the Southerly line of land conveyed to
Detroit Terrace, Ltd. by deed recorded in Volume 85-6275, Page 12 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also
being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-01-031;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of land conveyed to Detroit Terrace, Ltd. and its Easterly prolongation to
its intersection with the centerline of West 80th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 80th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the
Southerly line of land conveyed to Matthew Malizia and Celestia Terrace, LLC by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200906300463 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent
Parcel Number 002-01-048;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of land conveyed to Matthew Malizia and Celestia Terrace, LLC and its
Westerly prolongation to the Westerly line of Sublot No. 6 in the Lamb and Hooker Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 29 and 30 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 2, Page 27 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 6 and its Southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Detroit Avenue;
Thence Northeasterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Lake Avenue;
Thence Northwesterly along said centerline of Lake Avenue to the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2346,
Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

354

March 16, 2011

The City Record

29

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 338-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use District of land located on the southwest corner of Lake Avenue and Detroit Avenue
to General Retail Business (Map Change Number 2345, Sheet 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Lake Avenue with the centerline of Detroit Avenue;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 78th
Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 78th Street to its intersection with the said centerline of Lake Avenue;
Thence Southeasterly along said centerline of Lake Avenue to the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a General Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2345,
Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

355

30

The City Record

March 16, 2011

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 339-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use District of land bounded by Lake Avenue, Detroit Avenue and West 78th Street to
Multi-Family Residential (Map Change Number 2347, Sheet 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Lake Avenue with the centerline of Detroit Avenue;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 78th
Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 78th Street to its intersection with the said centerline of Lake Avenue;
Thence Southeasterly along said centerline of Lake Avenue to the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to Multi-Family Residential.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2347,
Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

356

March 16, 2011

The City Record

31

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

Ord. No. 340-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use District of land south of Detroit Avenue on the east side of West 55th Street shown
shaded on the attached map to a Two Family Residential District (Map Change Number 2348, Sheet 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the centerline of West 55th Street at its Southerly terminus being on a Northerly line of land conveyed
to Richard A. Piparinen and Laura E. Morello by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200805280384 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-15-031;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 55th Street to the Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line of land
conveyed to JoAnn C. Hunt by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200002011142 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records,
said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-15-003;
Thence along said Southerly line of said land conveyed to JoAnn C. Hunt and its Westerly prolongation to the Westerly line of the James M. Hoyt and James Wade Jr. Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 49 and
50 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 1, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of the James M. Hoyt and James Wade Jr. Subdivision, to the said Northerly line of land conveyed to Richard A. Piiparinen and Laura E. Morello;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of land conveyed to Richard A. Piiparinen and Laura E. Morello and said
Southerly terminus of West 55th Street to the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Two Family Residential District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2348,
Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

357

32

The City Record

March 16, 2011

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

Ord. No. 341-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands on the north and south sides of Detroit Avenue
between W. 70th Street and W. 45th Street shown shaded on the attached map to Local Retail Business, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District (Map Change Number 2349, Sheet 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Detroit Avenue with the Southerly prolongation of the Westerly line
of the John McCart Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 31 and 32 as shown on the plat recorded
in Volume 4, Page 14 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line of the John McCart Subdivision and its Southerly prolongation to the Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Joseph P. Isabella as Trustee for The Joseph P. & Angela M. Isabella Revocable Trust
by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200511020513 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, and being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-07-011;
Thence Northeasterly along said Southeasterly line of land conveyed to Joseph P. Isabella as Trustee for The Joseph
P. & Angela M. Isabella Revocable Trust and its Northeasterly prolongation thereof to its intersection with the centerline of West 69th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 69th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the
Southerly line of land conveyed to Gheorghe Bera and Maria Bera by deed recorded in Volume 92-0885, Page 59 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, and being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-09-011;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of land conveyed to Gheorghe and Maria Bera and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the Easterly line of the said John McCart Subdivision;
Thence Northerly along the said Easterly line of the John McCart Subdivision to the Westerly prolongation of the
Southerly line of land conveyed to Cleveland Housing Network Limited Partnership XXI by deed recorded in Auditor’s
File Number 200410070801 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, and being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-09-112;
Thence Easterly along the said Southerly line of land conveyed to Cleveland Housing Network Limited Partnership
XXI, its Westerly prolongation and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 67th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 67th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the
Southerly line of Sublot No. 76 in Mary E. Eckart, Oliver Alger and A. A. Marshall’s Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 31 and 32 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 17, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of Sublot No. 76, its Westerly prolongation and its Easterly prolongation to
its intersection with the Westerly line of Sublot No. 8 in the J. Morrison Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 31 and 32 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 1, Page 49 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 8 to the Southerly line thereof;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of Sublot No. 8 and its Easterly prolongation to the centerline of West 65th
Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 65th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the
Southerly line of land conveyed to Most Reverend John M. Botean, as Trustee for the Romanian Catholic Diocese by deed
recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200805280061 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, and being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-09-071;

358

March 16, 2011

The City Record

33

Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of land conveyed to Most Reverend John M. Botean, as Trustee for the
Romanian Catholic Diocese and its Easterly prolongation to an Easterly line thereof;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of land conveyed to Most Reverend John M. Botean, as Trustee for the
Romanian Catholic Diocese to the Southerly line of Sublot No. 4 in the Jacob B. Perkins Subdivision of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 31, 32 and 50 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 25, Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence Easterly along said Sublot No. 4 and the Easterly line of Sublot No. 82 in said Jacob B. Perkins Subdivision and
its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 64th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 64th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the
Southerly line of land conveyed to Jeffrey Eisenberg by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200808270236 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, and being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-12-019;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of land conveyed to Jeffrey Eisenberg and its Westerly prolongation to the
Westerly line of Sublot No. 86 in said Jacob B. Perkins Subdivision;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 86 to the Southerly line of Sublot No. 87 in said Jacob B.
Perkins Subdivision;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of Sublot No. 87 and its Easterly prolongation to the Westerly line of land
conveyed to Nadra Henen by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200611070415 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records,
and being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-12-099;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of land conveyed to Nadra Henen to the Southerly line thereof;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of land conveyed to Nadra Henen and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 61st Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 61st Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the
Southerly line of Sublot No. 166 in said Jacob B. Perkins Subdivision;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of Sublot No. 166, its Westerly prolongation and its Easterly prolongation
to its intersection with the centerline of West 59th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 59th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the
Southerly line of Sublot No. 241 in said Jacob B. Perkins Subdivision;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of Sublot No. 241 and its Westerly prolongation to the Easterly line thereof;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 241 to the Southerly line of Sublot No. 307 in said Jacob B.
Perkins Subdivision;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line of Sublot No. 307 and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of West 58th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 58th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Tillman Avenue;
Thence Northeasterly along said centerline of Tillman Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 54th
Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 54th Street to its intersection with the Southwesterly prolongation of
the Southeasterly line Sublot No. 190 in the S.S. Stone Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 50 as
shown on the plat recorded in Volume 2, Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northeasterly along said Southeasterly line Sublot No. 190 and its Southwesterly prolongation and the Southeasterly lines of Sublot Nos. 189 thru 174 inclusive and their Northeasterly prolongation to their intersection with the centerline of West 49th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 49th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Tillman Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Tillman Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the centerline of West 45th Street;
Thence southerly along said prolongation of said centerline of West 45th Street to its intersection with the centerline
of Detroit Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the centerline of West 48th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 48th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the
Northerly line of Sublot No. 68 in the Jacob Perkins Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 50 and 51as
shown on the plat recorded in Volume 1, Page 19 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 68 and its Easterly prolongation to the westerly line of land
conveyed to Airgas- Great Lakes, Inc. by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200906170063 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records, and being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-14-063;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of land conveyed to Airgas- Great Lakes, Inc. and along the Westerly line
of land conveyed to Lisa Marie Ayoub by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200708160707 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records, and being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-14-062, to the Northerly line of Sublot No.
67 in the said Jacob Perkins Allotment;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 67 to a Westerly line thereof;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 67 to the Northerly line of Sublot No. 29 in the Levi Martin Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 49 and 50 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 1, Page 49 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 29 and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of West 50th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 50th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the
Northerly line of Sublot No. 7 in the said Levi Martin Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 7 and along a Northwesterly line of said Sublot No. 7 to the
Easterly line of Sublot No. 4 in the Sapp Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 49and 50 as shown
on the plat recorded in Volume 7, Page 41 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line of Sublot No. 7 to the Northerly line of Sublot No. 5 in said Sapp Subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 5 and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of West 52nd Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 52nd Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the
Northerly line of Sublot No. 3 in the Philo Tilden Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 49 and 50 as
shown on the plat recorded in Volume 3, Page 46 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 3 and its Easterly prolongation to the Westerly line of the said
Philo Tilden Allotment;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of the Philo Tilden Allotment to a Southeasterly line of the Lot Consolidation made for Westside Ecumenical Ministry, Inc. of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 49 and 50 as shown on
the plat recorded in Volume 313, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;

359

34

The City Record

March 16, 2011

Thence Southwesterly along said Southeasterly line in the Lot Consolidation made for Westside Ecumenical Ministry,
Inc. to the Westerly line of the James M. Hoyt and James Wade Jr. Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot Nos. 49 and 50 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 1, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northerly along said Westerly line of the James M. Hoyt and James Wade Jr. Subdivision to its intersection
with the Easterly prolongation of a Northerly line of Block “A” in the Consolidation Plat for Herman Belohlavek Jr. and
Sherry D. Belohlavek of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 50 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 292,
Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Block “A” in the Consolidation Plat for Herman Belohlavek Jr. and Sherry D. Belohlavek, its Easterly prolongation and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West
54th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 54th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the
Northerly line of land conveyed to Mark A. Crook and Joan C. Crook by deed recorded in Volume 94-12235, Page 17 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records, and being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-15-046;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of land conveyed to Mark A. Crook and Joan C. Crook and its Easterly prolongation to the Easterly line of the Goodman-Melcher Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 49
and 50 as proposed;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line of the Goodman-Melcher Subdivision to the Northeasterly line of Sublot No.
22 in said Goodman-Melcher Subdivision;
Thence Southwesterly along said Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 22 and its Southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 55th Street;
Thence Northwesterly along said centerline of West 55th Street to its intersection with the Northeasterly prolongation
of a Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 2 in said Goodman-Melcher Subdivision;
Thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 2, its Northeasterly prolongation and its Southwesterly prolongation to the Northeasterly line of N.M. Standart’s Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
Nos. 49 and 50 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 1, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southeasterly along said Northeasterly line of said N.M. Standart’s Subdivision to the Northwesterly line of
Sublot No. 108 therein;
Thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 108, its Southwesterly prolongation, the Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 3, its Northeasterly prolongation, and its Southwesterly prolongation to the centerline of West 58th
Street;
Thence Northeasterly along said centerline of West 58th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Waverly
Court;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Waverly Court to the Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 4 in Rhodes and
Coffinberry’s Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 31, 32, 49 and 50 as shown on the plat recorded
in Volume 8, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southeasterly along said Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 4 to the Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 11 in said
Rhodes and Coffinberry’s Allotment;
Thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 11 and the Northwesterly lines of Sublot No. 10 and
its Southwesterly prolongation, and Sublot No. 9 thru Sublot No. 7 inclusive in said Rhodes and Coffinberry’s Allotment,
and Sublot Nos. 7 thru 12 inclusive in the Johnson, Sacket and Waterbury Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 32 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 9, Page 27 of Cuyahoga County Map Records to the Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 190 in the Gordan Avenue Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 32 as shown
on the plat recorded in Volume 21, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southeasterly along said Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 190 to its Southeasterly line;
Thence Southwesterly along said Southeasterly line of Sublot No. 190, and the Southeasterly lines of Sublot Nos. 191
thru 193 inclusive to the Northerly line of land conveyed to Joyce Seger by deed recorded in Volume 90-3673, Page 8 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records, and being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-16-075;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of land conveyed to Joyce Seger to a Westerly line thereof;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of land conveyed to Joyce Seger to a Northerly line thereof;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of land so conveyed to Joyce Seger and along the Northerly line of land conveyed to the City of Cleveland, Department of Community Development by deed recorded in Volume 15484, Page 847 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records, and being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 002-16-026, and its
Westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 65th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 65th Street to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the
centerline of Dehner Alley;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Dehner Alley to its Southwesterly right-of-way terminus;
Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly right-of-way terminus to the Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 18 in said
Gordan Avenue Allotment;
Thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 18 to a Southwesterly line thereof;
Thence Southeasterly along said Southwesterly line of Sublot No. 18 to a Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 19 in said Gordan Avenue Allotment;
Thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly line of Sublot No. 19 and the Northwesterly line of Sublot Nos. 21 thru
25 inclusive in said Gordan Avenue Allotment to a Northeasterly line of Parcel 1 in the Lot Split and Consolidation Map
for Bernd W. and Civita Blaske of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 32 as shown on the plat recorded in Volume 286, Page 94 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northwesterly along said Northeasterly line of Parcel 1 to a Northwesterly line thereof;
Thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly line of Parcel 1 to a Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 9 in said Gordan
Avenue Allotment;
Thence Northwesterly along said Northeasterly line of Sublot No. 9 and its Northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Detroit Avenue;
Thence Southwesterly along said centerline of Detroit Avenue to the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2349,
Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

360

March 16, 2011

The City Record

35

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 342-11.
ByCouncil Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use and Height Districts of land on the southeast corner of Lorain Rd. and West 65th Street
to Open Space and Recreation and a ‘1’ Height District (Map Change Number 2350, Sheet 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of West 65th Street and its intersection with centerline of Lorain Avenue;
Thence Northeasterly along said centerline of Lorain Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 58th
Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 58th Street to its intersection with the Westerly prolongation of the
Northerly line of land conveyed to the Cleveland Regional Transit Authority by deed dated September 5, 1975 and recorded in Volume 13869, Page 547 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s
Permanent Parcel Number 006-18-108;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line of said land conveyed to Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, its Westerly prolongation and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 53rd Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 53rd Street to the irregular Northerly Limited Access right-of-way of
State Route 90 as reestablished by deed recorded in Volume 87-5861, Page 42 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Thence Westerly along said irregular Northerly Limited Access right-of-way of State Route 90 to the said centerline
of West 65th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 65th Street to the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to an Open Space and Recreation District and a ‘1’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2350,
Sheet No.1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

361

36

The City Record

March 16, 2011

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 343-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use District of land south of Lorain Rd. and on the south side of Lorain between W. 55th
Street and W. 52nd Street shown shaded on the attached map to Local Retail Business (Map Change Number 2351, Sheet
1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Lorain Avenue with the centerline of West 52nd Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 52nd Street to its intersection with the Northeasterly prolongation of
the Northwesterly lines of lands conveyed to Gerardo Orteg by deed recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200610100463 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records, said parcels also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 006-19044 and 006-19-048;
Thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly lines of lands conveyed to Gerardo Orteg, its Northeasterly prolongation and its Southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 53rd Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 53rd to its intersection with the Easterly prolongation of the Northerly line of land conveyed to William Bartley and Joan Bartley by deed recorded in Volume 91-6192, Page 34 of Cuyahoga
County Deed Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 006-18-025;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line of land conveyed to William Bartley and Joan Bartley and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the Southeasterly line of Sublot No. 57 in Willard Burnham’s Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 49 as shown in the plat recorded in Volume 1, Page 8 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Southwesterly along said Southeasterly line of Sublot No. 57 to the Westerly line of Sublot No. 53 in said
Willard Burnham’s Subdivision;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line of Sublot No. 53 and the Westerly lines of said Sublot No. 52 and 51 in said
Willard Burnham’s Subdivision to its intersection with the centerline of the Northerly Railway Tracks of the Norfolk
and Western railway;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of the Northerly Railway Tracks of the Norfolk and Western railway to its
intersection with the centerline of West 58th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 58th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Lorain Avenue;
Thence Northeasterly along said centerline of Lorain Avenue to the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2351,
Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

362

March 16, 2011

The City Record

37

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 344-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use and Height Districts of land on the south side of Lorain Avenue between W. 50th Street
and West 48th Place shown shaded on the attached map to a Two Family Residential District and a ‘1’ Height District
(Map Change Number 2352, Sheet 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of West 50th Street with the centerline of Lorain Road;
Thence Northwesterly along said centerline of Lorain Road to its intersection with the centerline of West 48th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 48th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Lorain Court;
Thence Easterly and Northeasterly along the said centerline of Lorain Court to its intersection with the centerline of
West 48th Place;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 48th Place to its intersection with the centerline of Turn Avenue;
Thence Westerly along said centerline of Turn Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 48th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline of West 48th Street to its intersection with the Northerly right-of-way of Norfolk Southern Railway;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly right-of-way of Norfolk Southern Railway to its intersection with the centerline
of West 50th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline of West 50th Street to the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Two Family Residential District and
a ‘1’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2352,
Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

363

38

The City Record

March 16, 2011

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 345-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands located south of Lorain Avenue between West 41st
Street and West 38th Street to Local Retail, a ‘D’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District (Map Change No. 2357; Sheet No.
1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Lorain Road east of West 41st Street at its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the northeasterly line of Sublot No. 9 in the Levi F. Jackson Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume
2, Page 46 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southeasterly along said northeasterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of Sublot No. 8 in the
aforementioned Levi F. Jackson Subdivision;
Thence northeasterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to Cristina Bocirnea by deed dated April 15, 1994 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
V9443698002;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Burton Court;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Burton Court and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the
southerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot No. 11 in the Bishop & Jones Subdivision shown on the recorded plat
in Volume 1, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Lorain Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along the centerline of Lorain Avenue to the principal place of beginning,
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to Local Retail Business District, ‘C’ Area District and a ‘3’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2357,
Sheet No. 1 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

364

March 16, 2011

The City Record

39

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 346-11.
By Council Members Zone and Cimperman.
An ordinance establishing a Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District on Lorain Road between West 85th Street and
Gehring Street (Map Change No. 2355, Sheet Number 1)
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the lands located on the north and south sides of Lorain Road between West 85th Street and Gehring
Street shown shaded on the attached map are hereby designated as a Pedestrian Retail Overlay District (PRO).
Section 2. That the designation of the area described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change Number 2355, Sheet
Number 1, noted on the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

365

The City Record

40

March 16, 2011

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

SECOND READING
EMERGENCY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 133-11.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located on St. Clair Avenue to Ohio
Technical College.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 179-11.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located on East 75th Street to Chad
Murray.
Approved by Directors of Community Development City Planning
Commission Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development Finance.
Ord. No. 180-11.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 12615 Buckeye Road to
Harper Industries, Inc.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.

Ord. No. 181-11.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with The Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission to provide financial assistance to organize and
administer programs for marketing
the City of Cleveland as a venue for
sporting events and to actively market the Cleveland Public Hall as a
premier site for the hosting of major
events.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 190-11.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants
from the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development for
the CDBG Year 37 under the Title I of
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2011 Federal
HOME Grant Program, Emergency
Shelter Grant Program, and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with
AIDS Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees
Community
and
Economic
Development, Finance.

366

Ord. No. 250-11.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Public Works and
Finance to employ one or more temporary employment agencies to provide
professional services to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for the
Department of Public Works and the
Project Clean program and for the
Department of Finance, for a period
not to exceed one year.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
MOTION
By Council Member K. Johnson, seconded by Council Member Brady and
unanimously carried that the absence
of Council Members Phyllis E. Cleveland, Kevin Conwell, TJ Dow, Eugene
R. Miller, Mamie J. Mitchell, Terrell
H. Pruitt, Zachary Reed and Matthew
Zone, be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:45 p.m. to meet on Monday, March
21, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

Sandra Franklin
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
Pro Tempore

The City Record

March 16, 2011
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
Ord. No. 133-11.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located on St. Clair Avenue to Ohio
Technical College.
Ord. No. 179-11.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located on East 75th Street to Chad
Murray.
Ord. No. 180-11.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of

the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 12615 Buckeye Road to
Harper Industries, Inc.
Ord. No. 181-11.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with The Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission to provide financial assistance to organize and
administer programs for marketing
the City of Cleveland as a venue for
sporting events and to actively market the Cleveland Public Hall as a
premier site for the hosting of major
events.
Ord. No. 190-11.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Devel-

41
opment to apply for and accept grants
from the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development for
the CDBG Year 37 under the Title I of
the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, for the 2011 Federal
HOME Grant Program, Emergency
Shelter Grant Program, and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with
AIDS Program.
Ord. No. 250-11.
By Council Members K. Johnson
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Public Works and
Finance to employ one or more temporary employment agencies to provide
professional services to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for the
Department of Public Works and the
Project Clean program and for the
Department of Finance, for a period
not to exceed one year.

The following measure will be on its final passage on March 28, 2011:
Ord. No. 140-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make appropriations and provide current expenses for the daily operation of all
municipal departments of the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year from January 1, 2011 until December 31, 2011.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the daily operation of a municipal
department; now therefore,
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND:
Section 1. That to provide for the current expenses for the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011, the following sums be and they are hereby appropriated viz:
The sum of Five Hundred Twelve Million, Three Hundred Two Thousand, Two Hundred Sixty Four Dollars
($512,302,264) from the General Fund;
The sum of Sixty Seven Million, Five Hundred Two Thousand, Nine Hundred Fifty Three
Dollars ($67,502,953) from the Special Revenue Funds;
The sum of Twenty Eight Million, Nine Hundred Forty Five Thousand, Seven Hundred Thirteen
Dollars ($28,945,713) from the Internal Service Funds;
The sum of Six Hundred Six Million, Two Hundred Sixteen Thousand, Nine Hundred Thirty Four Dollars
($606,216,934) from the Enterprise Funds;
The sum of Nine Million, Six Hundred Thirty Seven Thousand, Six Hundred Nineteen Dollars ($9,637,619) from
the Trust and Agency Funds;
The sum of Sixty Three Million, Six Hundred Fifty One Thousand, Four Hundred Eighty Nine Dollars
($63,651,489) from the Debt Service Fund;
All set forth in the Mayor’s Estimate on file with Council and identified in the aggregate amount for each
department as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
EXECUTIVE BRANCH
General Government
Department of Aging
Department of Personnel
Department of Consumer Affairs
Department of Law
Department of Finance
Department of Port Control
Department of Public Service
Department of Public Health
Department of Public Safety
Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties
Department of Building & Housing
Department of Economic Development
Nondepartmental
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH
TOTAL GENERAL FUND
Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Trust and Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2011

367

$

6,650,734
40,442,884

8,164,367
893,378
1,845,302
227,583
8,255,643
13,778,506
279,654
35,779,491
5,442,018
302,424,902
36,860,346
9,230,812
1,503,898
40,522,746
———————
$ 465,208,646
———————
———————
$ 512,302,264
———————
———————
67,502,953
28,945,713
606,216,934
9,637,619
63,651,489
———————
$ 1,288,256,972
———————
———————

The City Record

42

March 16, 2011

GENERAL FUND
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

6,650,734

4,652,849
1,997,885
———————
$
6,650,734
———————
———————

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court — Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

20,062,767
2,543,359

Municipal Court — Clerk’s Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

9,053,376
5,326,446

Municipal Court — Housing Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

3,312,602
144,334

$

22,606,126

14,379,822

3,456,936

———————
$
40,442,884
———————
———————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

2,193,331
128,616

$

Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

175,531
4,582

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

109,885
10,242

Board of Zoning Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

189,281
12,730

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

552,379
634,319

Community Relations Board
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,117,508
67,738

City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,492,636
105,973

Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

7,701

Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

564,385
19,852

Office of Budget & Management-Budget Admin.
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

759,078
18,600

2,321,947

180,113

120,127

202,011

1,186,698

1,185,246

1,598,609

7,701

584,237

777,678

———————
$
8,164,367
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

368

March 16, 2011

The City Record

43

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

893,378

767,120
126,258
———————
$
893,378
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL
Office of Personnel
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,845,302

1,038,290
807,012
———————
$
1,845,302
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL

DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
Consumer Affairs
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

227,583

207,172
20,411
———————
$
227,583
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Department Law
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

8,255,643

6,429,586
1,826,057
———————
$
8,255,643
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

795,802
35,355

$

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,272,057
632,627

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

2,404,663
1,245,906

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

451,384
85,339

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

544,244
33,672

Bureau of Internal Audit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

523,950
439,660

831,157

1,904,684

3,650,569

536,723

577,916

963,610

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,295,765
22,855

1,318,620

Information Systems Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

2,030,961
1,799,269

Information Tech & Planning
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

159,397
5,600

3,830,230

164,997

———————
$
13,778,506
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

369

44

The City Record

March 16, 2011

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Division of Harbors
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

279,654

96,016
183,638
———————
$
279,654
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE
Public Service Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

385,642
9,862

$

Division of Architecture
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

434,562
24,800

Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

14,506,830
11,914,467

Division of Engineering and Construction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

4,251,456
434,890

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

2,937,916
879,066

395,504

459,362

26,421,297

4,686,346

3,816,982

———————
$
35,779,491
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

578,308
315,281

$

Division of Health
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,847,879
1,226,218

Division of Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

915,401
156,419

Division of Air Quality
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

121,412
281,100

893,589

3,074,097

1,071,820

402,512

———————
$
5,442,018
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

2,313,273
1,094,472

Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

161,891,896
9,248,431

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

87,106,345
3,113,475

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

19,071,747
2,641,222

Division of Animal Control Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

863,148
351,321

370

$

3,407,745

171,140,327

90,219,820

21,712,969

1,214,469

The City Record

March 16, 2011

Division of Correction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

45
14,729,572
11,277,068
3,452,504
———————
$ 302,424,902
———————
———————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Parks, Recreation, and Properties Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

558,670
143,471

$

Division of Research, Planning, and Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

579,388
53,957

702,141

633,345

Division of Recreation
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

9,498,523
3,549,274

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,227,804
60,774

Division of Property Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

5,771,656
2,812,854

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

8,141,526
4,462,449

13,047,797

1,288,578

8,584,510

12,603,975

———————
$
36,860,346
———————
———————

TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Dir Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,420,517
407,498

Division of Code Enforcement
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

5,725,174
185,318

Division of Construction Permit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,476,379
15,926

$

1,828,015

5,910,492

1,492,305

———————
$
9,230,812
———————
———————

TOTAL BUILDING AND HOUSING

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,503,898

1,475,212
28,686

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

———————
$
1,503,898
———————
———————

NONDEPARTMENTAL
County Auditor Deductions
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,096,000

3,096,000

Other Administrative
II.
Other Expenses

17,953,366

Transfer to Other Funds
II.
Other Expenses

19,473,380

17,953,366

19,473,380
———————
$
40,522,746
———————
———————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL
TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$ 465,208,646
———————
———————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$ 512,302,264
———————
———————

371

The City Record

46

March 16, 2011

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND
Restricted Income Tax Fund
I.
Capital
II.
Debt Service

7,961,277
25,555,664

$

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

14,445,498
11,040,514

33,516,941

25,486,012

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities Fund
II.
Other Expenses

1,000,000

1,000,000

Rainy Day Fund
II.
Other Expenses

7,500,000

7,500,000
———————
$
67,502,953
———————
———————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Information Systems Services-Telephone Exchange
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

6,272,536

1,146,980
5,125,556

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

5,647,635
13,804,400

19,452,035

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

833,135
1,497,751

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

113,336
776,920

2,330,886

890,256

———————
$
28,945,713
———————
———————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

Radio
I.
II.

2,689,468

2,001,495
687,973
2,049,191

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

422,122
1,627,069

Division of Fiscal Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

2,827,028
417,964

Division of Water
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

77,114,602
166,695,398

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

10,650,740
10,576,260

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

28,777,766
134,516,234

3,244,992

243,810,000

21,227,000

163,294,000

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

———————
$ 436,314,651
———————
———————

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke Lakefront
Airports — Operations
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
32,651,987
II.
Other Expenses
106,418,455
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

372

$

139,070,442

———————
$ 139,070,442
———————
———————

The City Record

March 16, 2011

47

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Division of Cemeteries
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,269,679
495,858

$

Golf Course Fund
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

602,550
523,465

1,126,015

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,129,418
8,731,656

Division of Convention Center
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

1,132,193
1,325,541

9,861,074

2,457,734

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-West Side Market
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
421,903
II.
Other Expenses
659,578
Division of Convention Center & Stadium-Stadium
II.
Other Expenses

1,765,537

1,081,481

14,500,000
14,500,000

Division of Property Management — East Side Market
II.
Other Expenses
40,000

40,000
———————
$
30,831,841
———————
———————

TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION, & PROPERTIES

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$ 606,216,934
———————
———————
AGENCY FUND

Central Collection Agency
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

9,637,619

5,962,009
3,675,610
———————
$
9,637,619
———————
———————

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

DEBT SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
III.
Debt Service

$

63,651,489

179,432
868,800
62,603,257
———————
$
63,651,489
———————
———————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

Section 2. That the appropriations herein made are based upon the detail of expenditures set forth in the Mayor’s
Estimate, but are appropriated to the several departments, offices, and purposes in the aggregate for I. — Personnel and Related Expenses; and II. — Other Expenses and are not severally and individually appropriated in
said detail. Any unencumbered balance in an appropriation fund at the close of the year 2010 is hereby appropriated to such fund for the payment of unpaid obligations lawfully incurred in 2011 or prior years. The Mayor’s
Estimate, as modified by the schedule published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter shall within the sums
appropriated in Section 1 hereof, constitute the expenditure budget for the year 2011 and shall be subject to the
control of the Mayor, provided, however, that no transfer from I. — Personnel and Related Expenses, or II. —
Other Expenses within any department or office, or from one department or office to another shall be made except
as provided in Section 41 of the Charter.
Section 3. That the Commissioner of Accounts is hereby authorized to draw warrants upon the City Treasury
for the amount appropriated in this ordinance, whenever claims are presented properly approved by the head of
the department or by the chief of a commission for which indebtedness was incurred.
Section 4. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force at the earliest period allowed
by law.

373

The City Record

48
BOARD OF CONTROL

March 9, 2011
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, March 9, 2011,
at 10:36 a.m. with Director Triozzi
presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Withers, R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Others: James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Interim
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 82-11.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of January, 2011 in the amount of $5,585.58,
attached and made a part of this
resolution, is received, approved and
ordered filed.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 83-11.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of February,
2011
in
the
amount
of
$6,974.66, attached and made a part
of
this
resolution,
is
received,
approved and ordered filed.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 84-11.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Corrpro Companies, Inc.
for the public improvement of the
Kirtland-Baldwin Raw Water Main
Cathodic Protection System, including
a
$54,748.83
contingency
allowance, all items, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, received on November 18,
2010, under the authority of Ordi-

March 16, 2011

nance No. 444-10, passed June 7, 2010,
upon a unit basis for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
$602,237.14, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest responsible bid, and
the Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into a contract
for the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by Corrpro Companies, Inc. for the abovementioned public improvement is
approved:

Resolution No. 86-11.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that under Section 571.90 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the monthly non-refundable
deposit and per banner fee (collectively “Rates”) that the Director of
Port Control proposes to assess and
collect from parties for conducting
banner towing operations at Burke
Lakefront Airport are set as follows:

SUBCONTRACTOR

Monthly Deposit (Non-refundable)
$200.00 per month

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Hogan Electric Company,
LLC (CSB/MBE)
$70,121.00
11.643%
Cuyahoga Fence, LLC
(CSB/FBE)

$2,190.00
0.364%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 85-11.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of The Jands Group, Inc., for necessary items of labor and materials
necessary to clean existing escalators and moving sidewalks at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
all items, for the Department of Port
Control, for a period of two years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
November 18, 2010, under the authority of Section No. 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$31,684.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Port Control is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the labor and materials
necessary, which contract shall provide for an initial order, the cost of
which shall be certified to the contract in the sum of $31,684.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such labor
and materials, whether more or less
than the estimated quantity, as may
be ordered under delivery orders
separately certified to the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subcontractor
by
The
Jands
Group,
Inc.
is
approved:
Subcontractor

CSB/MBE/FBE %
Amount

Pro Construction, Inc. 20% CSB/MBE
$6,336.80
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.

374

Banner Charges
(Not to Exceed)

Per Banner Charge
$20.00 per banner
Be it further resolved that the
Rates shall be in force and effect
for a period not to exceed one year
from March 1, 2011 to February 29,
2012.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 87-11.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors
by
Independence
Excavating, Inc., under City Contract No. PI2010000000071 for the
public improvement of renovating
and upgrading the runway safety
area for Runway 10-28, Phase II, at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, authorized by Ordinance No.
589-09, as amended by Ordinance No.
498-10, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 1, 2009
and May 10, 2010, respectively, and
Board of Control Resolution No. 45510, as amended by Resolution No.
494-10, adopted November 3, 2010 and
November 24, 2010, respectively, is
approved.
Subcontractor

DBE Percentage
Amount

Royal Landscape - Gardening. Inc.
0.94% DBE
$ 178,121.66
Simplified Alternatives, Inc.
0.05% DBE
$
9,200.00
Michael Harris Construction
Company
0.65% DBE
$ 123,000.00
Timeline Photography

0.02% DBE
$
3,600.00

Ballast Construction, Inc. d/b/a
Ballast Fence
0.15% DBE
$
29,450.00
P.G.T. Construction, Inc.
DBE
Hourly as needed
The W. L. Harper Company
23.94% Non DBE
$4,552,464.66
Zenith Systems, LLC
10.44% Non DBE
$1,985,020.00
Antigo Construction, Inc.
0.82% Non DBE
$ 156,853.10

The City Record

March 16, 2011
Kokosing Construction Company,
Inc.
4.94% Non DBE
$ 940,014.55
Safety Grooving & Grinding, LP
0.19% Non DBE
$
36,995.00
Miller Maintenance
0.07% Non DBE
$
13,845.00
Solar Testing Laboratories, Inc.
0.32% Non DBE
$
60,000.00
Industrial Security Service, LLC
Non DBE
Hourly as needed
Engineered Concrete Structures
Corp.
Non DBE
To be determined
Be it further resolved that the
amounts attributed to the subcontractors approved in Board of Control Resolution No. 455-10, as amended by Resolution No. 494-10, adopted
November 3, 2010 and November 24,
2010, respectively, are amended as
follows:
Subcontractor

North Electric, Inc.

DBE Percentage
Amount
2.96% DBE
$ 562,861.50

Hi-Lite Markings, Inc.
1.08% Non DBE
$ 205,793.36
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 88-11.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Section 181.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
City through its Director of Port
Control, entered into City Contract
No. PS2010*229 with Era Systems
Corporation to maintain and support
noise monitoring software, including
providing and installing upgrades,
monitoring, training, maintenance,
hosting and all required licenses for
the Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, by letter dated September 20, 2010 and under Article VII
of City Contract No. PS2010*229, Era
Systems Corporation has requested
the City’s consent to assign all of
Era Systems Corporation’s interests
and certain obligations under the
contract to ITT Corporation; and
Whereas, ITT Corporation proposes to undertake all of Era Systems
Corporation’s interests and all of its
obligations first occurring after the
effective date of assignment under
City Contract No. PS2010*229, without waiving any of Era Systems Corporation’s obligations to the City or
the City’s rights against Era Systems Corporation existing prior to
the effective date of assignment;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
as requested by Era Systems Corporation by its September 20, 2010 letter and under Article VII of City
Contract No. PS2010*229, this Board
consents to the assignment of City
Contract No. PS2010*229 to ITT Cor-

poration effective October 25, 2010.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to execute all documents and
to do all things necessary and
appropriate to implement the consent authorized, provided that the
terms of such assignment do not
conflict with the terms and conditions
of
City
Contract
No.
PS2010*229.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 89-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1666-09, passed April
12, 2010, by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized, by and at the direction of the
Board of Control, to sell certain
City-owned property no longer needed for public use located at 1350
East 105th Street in the City of
Cleveland, Ohio, also known as Permanent Parcel Number 107-23-009, to
Famicos Foundation or its designee;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1666-09
provides that the consideration to be
paid for the property shall not
exceed $10.00 and other valuable
consideration determined to be fair
market value by the Board of Control; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1666-09, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on April 12, 2010,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is directed to sell certain
City-owned property no longer needed for public use located at 1350
East 105th Street, also known as
Permanent Parcel Number 107-23-009,
to
Famicos
Foundation
or
its
designee. The consideration to be
paid for the property is fixed at Ten
Dollars ($10.00) and other valuable
consideration,
which
amount
is
determined to be fair market value.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor of the City of Cleveland is
requested to execute and deliver the
official deed of the City of Cleveland conveying the property, which
document shall contain such additional terms and conditions as the
Director of Law shall deem necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 90-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, Section 183.024, Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire certain properties owned by the Department of Housing and Urban Devel-

375

49
opment (HUD) and Fannie Mae,
each for a price determined as Fair
Market Value, as part of the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Section
183.024,
the
City
has
acquired Permanent Parcel No. 00603-122 located at 2040 West 83rd
Street from HUD; and
Whereas, Cuyahoga County Land
Reutilization Corporation has proposed to the City to purchase the
property for rehabilitation and/or
redevelopment; and
Whereas, Section 183.024 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, when directed by
the Director of Community Development, and with the prior written
consent of the Council member(s) in
whose ward the property acquired
from HUD or Fannie Mae to be sold
is located, to convey the property to
purchasers for the public purpose of
rehabilitation and/or resale for consideration established by the Board
of Control at not less than fair market value; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under
the
authority
of
Section
183.024,
Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the consideration for the sale of Permanent Parcel No. 006-03-122 to Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation is
established as $1.00, which amount
is determined to be not less than
fair
market
value
taking
into
account such terms and conditions,
restrictions and covenants as are
deemed necessary or appropriate.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 91-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 106-12-018 located at 1551 East
65th Street in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Phyllis Duncan, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the northerly portion of the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified

50
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland to Phyllis Duncan for
the sale and development of the
northerly portion of the Permanent
Parcel No. 106-12-018 located at 1551
East 65th Street, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 92-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 107-13-092 located at 1431 East
92nd Street in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Ruby S. Bell-Waters,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Ruby S. BellWaters for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 107-13-092
located at 1431 East 92nd Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.

The City Record
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 93-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 107-12-034 located at 1378 East
92nd Street in Ward 7; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Wanda Hudson, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 7 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Wanda Hudson
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 107-12-034 located
at 1378 East 92nd Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 94-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 108-20-073 located at 848 East

376

March 16, 2011
95th Street in Ward 8; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Henry Shepard, Jr., abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Henry Shepard,
Jr. for the sale and development of
Permanent
Parcel
No.
108-20-073
located at 848 East 95th Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 95-11.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor by Alitalia Contractor’s, Inc. d/b/a Creative Concrete
Construction Co., under City Contract
No.
67442
for
the
public
improvement of repairing and maintaining runways, taxiways, ramps,
roads and other concrete surfaces,
authorized by Ordinance No. 408-07,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on June 4, 2007 and Board
of Control Resolution No. 550-07,
adopted October 3, 2007, is approved.
Subconsultant

CSB/MBE/FBE%
Amount

Kokosing Construction
Company, Inc.
29.76% Non CSB/MBE/FBE
$100,000.00
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.

The City Record

March 16, 2011
Resolution No. 96-11.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 17-11, adopted January 12,
2011, authorized the Director of Public Works to enter into contract with
Apex Construction & Management
Co. Inc. for the public improvement
of Cleveland Public Auditorium Interior Door Improvements, for the
Department of Public Works; and
Whereas,
Resolution
No.
17-11
incorrectly identified the method of
making the improvement as upon a
unit basis when the method of making the improvement determined
under Ord. No. 684-08, passed on July
2, 2008, and the bids received for the
project were both upon a gross
price; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 17-11, adopted by this
Board on January 12, 2011, authorizing the Director of Public Works
to enter into contract with Apex
Construction & Management Co. Inc.
for the public improvement of Cleveland
Public
Auditorium
Interior
Door Improvements, for the Department of Public Works, is amended
by substituting “gross price” for
“unit price” where appearing.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
17-11 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Acting Directors Scott,
Butler, H. Smith, Director Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton, Directors
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.

51

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2011
3/18/2011 — 3/24/2011
Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.

Exam
Type

EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

BILINGUAL COMMUNICATION SPECIALIST (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY

8

9

WR

WR

Bilingual
Communication
Specialist

Open

Senior Internal
Officer

Open

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.97 - $18.14 per hour.

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.

Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 8

Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

377

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO TAKE THE
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION –
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY,
MARCH 18, 2011 UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON,
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
WRITTEN/TYPING/PERFORMANCE
NOTE: WRITTEN TEST = 50% OF
FINAL GRADE. TYPING TEST =
30% OF FINAL GRADE. THE WRITTEN TEST WILL BE ADMINISTERED FIRST. CANDIDATES MUST
RECEIVE A PASSING GRADE ON
THE WRITTEN TEST IN ORDER TO
BE ABLE TO TAKE THE TYPING
TEST WHERE A MINIMUM OF 30
WPM IS REQUIRED IN ORDER TO
HAVE THEIR EXAMS GRADED.
FAILURE TO OBTAIN 30 WPM ON
THE TYPING PORTION OF THE
EXAM WILL RESULT IN AN AUTOMATIC SCORE OF ZERO. (FAILURE) PERFORMANCE TEST= 20%
OF FINAL GRADE. CANDIDATES
MUST BE ABLE TO TRANSLATE
INFORMATION AUDIO-TAPED IN
ANOTHER LANGUAGE INTO WRITTEN ENGLISH.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Answers and handles citizens’ emergency and non-emergency calls in a
call-taking and/or dispatching center.  Elicits pertinent information,
analyzes situations and makes decisions as to the appropriate priority for
dispatching of calls for service.  Generates events for Public Safety emergency response utilizing, at minimum, the computer aided dispatch
(CAD) system.  As needed, assists
other employees by acting as an interpreter on calls received from individuals with Limited English Proficiency (LEP).  Maintains familiarity with

The City Record

52
the streets of the City and the various
social agencies available to assist
those in need.  Contacts other agencies when needed including, but not
limited to Public Utilities, Animal
Control, and various City departments.  Performs any other duties as
directed by proper authority.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License or State ID is required.
Must have the ability to type and
operate a computer terminal at a
speed of 30 words per minute (net,
after mistakes have been deducted).
Must pass a criminal background
investigation, drug test, medical evaluation, and psychological evaluation
prior to appointment to the position.
Must be able to lift and carry 30
pounds. Must be able to read, write,
and speak Spanish and/or Chinese
(Mandarin/Cantonese) in addition to
English.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland and
who received passing scores shall
have ten (10) additional points added
to their grades. A list of acceptable
forms of proof of residency applicants
need to present at the time of filing is
included in the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 9
SENIOR
(OPEN)

INTERNAL

AUDITOR

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $23,647.11 - $65,065.95 per year.

FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK–UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON
FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2011 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, MARCH 24,
2011.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON,
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

March 16, 2011
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

EXAMINATION INFORMATION

ROBERT BENNETT,
President

TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

March 16, 2011

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011
Under administrative direction, plans
and conducts financial compliance
and operational audits of designated
City departments or divisions according to accepted accounting principles.
Supervises staff auditors and assists
external auditors. Prepares auditing
reports. Audits inventories, cash functions, and outside contractor documents. May prepare accounting policies and procedures and footnote calculations. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Accounting, Finance, Business, Public Administration, Information Systems, or related field from an accredited four year college or university is
required. Three years of full time
paid experience in accounting or
auditing is required. Must possess a
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License.
Strong written and verbal communication skills are required. Should be
proficient in Microsoft Office Suites
and have a knowledge of various computerized accounting software packages. Individual must be able to lift
and carry a minimum of thirty (30)
pounds.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure

378

9:30 A.M.
Music License
Calendar No. 11-20: 3232 Lakeside
Avenue (Ward 3)
Theodore J. Talliere, manager,
and Charles R. Fleck, owner, appeal
under the authority of Section 76-6
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland from the decision of the Public
Safety Department to revoke Music
License No. PEMU11-00089 dated
June 23, 2009 for the premises at
3232 Lakeside Avenue, as stated in
the notice issued February 4, 2011
from the Cleveland Division of
Assessments and Licenses.
Tow Truck Drivers License
Calendar No. 11-21: Appeal of Ramon
Black
Ramon Black appeals under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland from the
decision of the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses on January 31, 2011 to not issue a Tow
Truck Drivers License, based upon
a report received from the City of
Cleveland Criminal History Records
Section and violations under Section
677A.15(h) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 11-29: 10723 Magnolia
Drive (Ward 8)
Mt. Zion Congregational Church,
owner, appeals for an addition to
expand the use of a church to
include an early childhood learning
center and accessory offices proposed to be constructed on consolidated parcels in an AA1 Limited
One Family District, and pursuant
to Section 337.01(2) places of worship and a school require the Board
of Zoning Appeals approval; and an
additional 10 parking spaces are
required, 7 spaces for offices, multi
purpose room and book store and 3
spaces for the day care in accordance with Section 349.04 of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

The City Record

March 16, 2011
REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

MONDAY, MARCH 14, 2011
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, March
14, 2011, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The
following
Approved:

appeal

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE

was
NONE

Calendar No. 11-16: 5703 Fleet Avenue
Gerald
Rudowsky
appealed
to
change use from a service station to
a motor vehicle minor repair shop in
a Local Retail Business District;
subject to conditions.

Calendar No. 10-258: 935 East 146th
Street
Kimberly
Vance
appealed
to
install 70 linear feet of 4 feet high
chain link fence in the actual front
yard of a lot in a B1 Two-Family
District; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 11-10: 3662 East 108th
Street
Betty Russell appealed to erect a
pre-manufactured wheelchair lift in
the front yard of a lot in a B1 TwoFamily District.
The following appeals were Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 11-18: 12800 Brookpark
Road
12800
Brookpark
Road
LLC,
owner, and Lakefront Lines, tenant,
appealed to erect a double faced
pole sign panel to a nonconforming
pole sign in a General Industry District.
Calendar No. 10-267: 7835 Harvard
Avenue
Catholic Diocese of Cleveland,
owner, and Treatment Works, Inc.,
lessee, appealed to expand occupancy of a Correctional Halfway House
from 40 to 70 residents in a SemiIndustry District.
The following appeals were Dismissed:
None.
The following appeal was Postponed:
Calendar No. 11-3: 5900 Detroit Avenue
scheduled for March 21, 2011 was
postponed to April 25, 2011.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on March 7, 2011 was adopted and approved on March 14, 2011.
The
following
Approved:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 11-14: 1549 East 84th
Street
Susan Whatley appealed to erect
32 linear feet of 4 foot high chain
link fence along the front setback
of a lot in B1 Two-Family and D2
Multi-Family District; subject to condition.
Secretary

SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S CHECK AND OR
MONEY ORDER ONLY (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2011 AT 11:00
A.M. THE DIVISION OF WATER
POLLUTION
CONTROL,
12302
KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44108.

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
March 9, 2011 and March 16, 2011
NONE

Calendar No. 11-19: 9431 Lorain
Avenue
The Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation appealed to construct a 4 residential unit building
and establish a multi-unit residential use in a 3-story building on consolidated parcels in a General Retail
Business District.

53

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2011
File No. 34-11 — Pearldale Avenue
Sewer Repair and Relining Project, for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 398-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 1, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND

379

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2011
File No. 35-11 — Manufacturing
Road Sewer Replacement Project,
for the Division of Water Pollution
Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 597-10, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 7, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S CHECK AND OR
MONEY ORDER ONLY (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2011 AT 11:30
A.M. THE DIVISION OF WATER
POLLUTION
CONTROL,
12302
KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44108.
File No. 37-11 — Office Supplies, for
the Various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FOR
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011 AT
10:30 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM 128,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
March 9, 2011 and March 16, 2011
THURSDAY, APRIL 7, 2011
File No. 38-11 — Hazardous and NonHazardous Waste Disposal and
Recycling Services, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1598-10, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 6, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY,
MARCH 24, 2011 AT 10:00 A.M.
LOCATED AT THE CARL B
STOKES
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING, 4TH FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT AT TEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.

The City Record

54
File No. 41-11 — Uniform Clothing,
for the Division of Fire, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Section 135.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, MARCH 24, 2011 AT
11:00 A.M. LOCATED AT THE
FIRE
HEADQUARTERS,
1645
SUPERIOR,
CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2011

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2011

File No. 40-11 — Pipe Repair Couplings, Group A and B, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Section 129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2011 AT 10:30
A.M. LOCATED AT THE DIVISION OF WATER, DISTRIBUTION & MAINTENANCE, 4600
HARVARD
AVENUE,
PIPE
REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.

File No. 42-11 — Various Sewer
Maintenance Appurtenance-Slabs,
for the Division of Fire, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Section 129.27 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2011 AT 11:00
A.M. LOCATED AT THE DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL,
12302
KIRBY
AVENUE, RED CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.

File No. 43-11 — HVAC/R Supplies
and Equipment (Re-Bid), for the
Division of Property Management,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Section 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, MARCH 28, 2011 AT 10:00
A.M. LOCATED AT CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
ROOM
12,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

March 16, 2011 and March 23, 2011

March 16, 2011 and March 23, 2011

March 16, 2011 and March 23, 2011

THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2011
File No. 36-11 — Medical Supplies,
for the Various Divisions of City
Government,
Department
of
Finance, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FOR
TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2011 AT
10:30 A.M. LOCATED AT CLEVELAND CITY HALL, DIVISION OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
ROOM
128,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
File No. 39-11 — Labor and Materials Necessary for Painting and
Paint Removal on Roadway, Runways and Other Paved Surfaces
(Re-Bid), for the Various Divisions
of Port Control, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 409-10 passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, May 24, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 2011 AT 10:00
A.M.
LOCATED
AT
THE
DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S
CENTRAL RECEIVING BUILDING, 19451 FIVE POINTS ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.
File No. 44-11 — Large Capacity
Trucks, for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance 1504-10
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, December 6, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 2011 AT
1:00 P.M. LOCATED AT CLEVELAND CITY HALL, DIVISION OF
STREETS,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
ROOM
25,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
March 16, 2011 and March 23, 2011

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 300-11.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 3609
Community College Boulevard.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C2 Liquor
Permit at Community Supermarket,
Inc., DBA Mike’s Food Market, 3609
Community College Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number
1669840; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of

380

March 16, 2011
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Community Supermarket, Inc., DBA Mike’s Food Market, 3609 Community College Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 1669840, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 7, 2011.
Effective March 10, 2011.

Res. No. 302-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer
liquor license of a D5 Liquor Permit at
1222 Prospect Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 146-11, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
D5 Liquor Permit to Club Center
Lounge, Inc., DBA Xecutive Lounge,
1222 Prospect Avenue by Resolution
No. 146-11 adopted by the Council on
January 31, 2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of liquor license and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
Liquor Permit to Club Center Lounge,
Inc., DBA Xecutive Lounge, 1222
Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 15721860001
be and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 146-11, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 7, 2011.
Effective March 10, 2011.

March 16, 2011
Res. No. 303-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution designating
West
81st
Street
between
Franklin Boulevard and Detroit
Avenue a residential permit parking
area.
Whereas, the Director of Public Service has received verified petitions by
residents living in 80% of the living
units on West 81st Street; and
Whereas, the Director of Public Service has completed a survey of the
above mentioned streets and the surrounding areas and has determined
that said streets have serious issues
of motor vehicle congestion, particularly by long-term parking of cars on
neighborhood streets by non-residents, combined with a lack of driveways and garages in the neighborhood; and
Whereas, the Director of Public Service has therefore determined that
West 81st Street between Franklin
Boulevard and Detroit Avenue is eligible for residential permit parking
and has recommended to Council that
it designate said street as a residential permit parking area; and
Whereas, Council Member Zone
concurs in said Director’s recommendation; and
Whereas, West 81st Street between
Franklin Boulevard and Detroit
Avenue has otherwise met the objective criteria set forth in Chapter 461 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
designates West 81st Street between
Franklin Boulevard and Detroit
Avenue a residential permit parking
area, twenty-four (24) hours per day,
seven (7) days per week.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted March 7, 2011.
Effective March 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 294-11.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli, and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 10, 38, 56, 74, and 84 of Ordinance No. 1289-10, passed September
27, 2010; and to amend the ordinance
by adding new Sections 84a., 84b., 84c.,
and 84d., relating to the sale of real
property as part of the Land Reutilization Program located on scattered
sites to St. John’s West Family
Homes, L.P.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 10, 38, 56,
74, and 84 of Ordinance No. 1289-10,
passed September 27, 2010, are amended to read as follows:
Section 10. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is
more fully described as follows:

The City Record
P. P. No. 103-22-016
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being Parcel “E“ in the
Lot Split and Consolidation for BFR
Partners Company, LLC of part of
Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 67, 68, 69
& 70 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 341, Page 31 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 38. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-095
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being Parcel “A “ in the
Dedication Plat for Stanley Tolliver
Avenue, S.E. and Lot Split and Consolidation for BFR Partners Co., LLC of
part of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 66,
67, 68, 69 & 70 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 350, Page 34 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 56. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-22-125
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being Parcel “C“ in the
Dedication Plat for Stanley Tolliver
Avenue, S.E. and Lot Split and Consolidation for BFR Partners Co., LLC of
part of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 66,
67, 68, 69 & 70 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 350, Page 34 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 74. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-001
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being Parcel “A“ in the
Lot Split and Consolidation for BFR
Partners Company, LLC of part of
Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 67, 68, 69
& 70 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 346, Page 57 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 84. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-041
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being Parcel “D“ in the
Lot Split & Consolidation for BFR
Partners Company, LLC of part of
Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 67, 68, 69
and 70 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 346, Page 55 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That existing Sections 10,
38, 56, 74, and 84 of Ordinance No. 128910, passed September 27, 2010, are
repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 128910, passed September 27, 2010 is supplemented by adding new Sections
84a., 84b., 84c., and 84d. to read as follows:
Section 84a. That under Section
183.021 of the codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.

381

55
Section 84b. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-042
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being Parcel “C“ in the
Lot Split & Consolidation for BFR
Partners Company, LLC of part of
Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 67, 68, 69
& 70 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 346, Page 55 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 84c. That under Section
183.021 of the codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below to St.
John’s West Family Homes, L.P.
Section 84d. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-23-044
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being Parcel “B“ in the
Lot Split & Consolidation for BFR
Partners Company, LLC of part of
Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 67, 68, 69
& 70 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 346, Page 55 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 7, 2011.
Effective March 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 296-11.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance of a Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Permit to Joe Sheppard to engage in peddling in Ward 5.
Whereas, pursuant to Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights of
way outside of the Central Business
District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the request of to engage in peddling to Joe Sheppard outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow Joe Sheppard peddle
in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.07 of
the Codified Ordinances to allow to
Joe Sheppard to engage in mobile peddling in the public rights of way of
Ward 5 at 2824 East 69th Street, north
of Kinsman Road.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons
named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the privilege granted may be revoked at any time by this
Council.

The City Record

56
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 7, 2011.
Effective March 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 297-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing Elvis O. Serrano to engage in
mobile peddling in Ward 3.
Whereas, pursuant to Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the consent of Council, expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to temporary sidewalk peddling upon the public rights of way
outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons to
engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons
to engage in peddling in Ward 3; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances, this
Council hereby consents to allow
Elvis O. Serrano to engage in mobile
peddling in the public right of way in
Ward 3.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons
named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the privilege granted herein may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 7, 2011.
Effective March 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 298-11.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing Elvis O. Serrano to engage in
mobile peddling in Ward 9.

Whereas, pursuant to Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the consent of Council, expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to temporary sidewalk peddling upon the public rights of way
outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons to
engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons
to engage in peddling in Ward 9; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances, this
Council hereby consents to allow
Elvis O. Serrano to engage in mobile
peddling in the public right of way in
Ward 9.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons
named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the privilege granted herein may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 7, 2011.
Effective March 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 299-11.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance authorizing Elvis O. Serrano to engage in
mobile peddling in Ward 14.
Whereas, pursuant to Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the consent of Council, expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to temporary sidewalk peddling upon the public rights of way
outside of the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons to
engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons
to engage in peddling in Ward 14; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

March 16, 2011
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances, this
Council hereby consents to allow
Elvis O. Serrano to engage in mobile
peddling in the public right of way in
Ward 14.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons
named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the privilege granted herein may be revoked at any time
by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed March 7, 2011.
Effective March 10, 2011.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, March 14, 2011
9:00 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Keane, Kelley. Authorized Absence: Conwell,
Reed, Zone. Pro tempore: Brancatelli, Sweeney.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee
Present: Sweeney, Chair; Kelley,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Keane, Polensek, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: Cleveland, Miller,
Mitchell, Pruitt. Pro tempore: K.
Johnson.
Tuesday, March 15, 2011
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee:
Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: Dow,
Vice Chair; Miller, Pruitt, Zone. Pro
tempore: Keane.
Wednesday, March 16, 2011
10:00 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation Committee:
Present: Keane, Chair; Cummins,
J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley.
Authorized Absence: Pruitt, Vice
Chair; Mitchell.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Economic development — The Greater Cleveland Sports Commission (O 181-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367

382

March 16, 2011

The City Record

57

Aids
Federal Home Grant Program (2011) — Emergency Shelter Grant — Housing opportunities for
persons with aids program — Year XXXVII — Community Development Department
(O 190-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367

Appropriations
Appropriations — year 2011- current expenses and other expenses — Finance
Department (O 140-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 367

Board of Control — Baldwin Water Works Plant
Raw Water Main Cathodic Protection System — per Ord. 444-10 to Corrpro Companies, Inc. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 84-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

Board of Control — Burke Lakefront Airport Division
Banner Fee and Deposit — per C.O. Sec. 571.90 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 86-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Escalators and moving sidewalk cleaning — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to The Jands Group, Inc. —
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 85-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374
Runway 10-28 renovation and upgrade safety areas, Phase II — approve subcontractors —
Contract #PI2010-71 per BOC Res. 455-10, 494-10 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 87-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 65th St., 1551 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-12-018 — Phyllis Duncan (BOC Res. 91-11) . . . . . . . .
East 92nd St., 1378 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-12-034 — Wanda Hudson (BOC Res. 93-11) . . . . . . . .
East 92nd St., 1431 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-13-092 — Ruby S. Bell-Waters (BOC Res. 92-11) . . . .
East 95th St., 848 (Ward 8) — PPN 108-20-073 — Henry Shepard, Jr. (BOC Res. 94-11) . . . . . .
West 83rd St., 2040 (Ward 15) — PPN 006-03-122 — HUD/Fannie Mae property — Cuyahoga
County Land Reutilization Corporation (BOC Res. 90-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

375
376
376
376

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Board of Control — Finance Department
East 105th St., 1350 — PPN 107-23-009 — sell to Famicos Foundation per Ord. 1666-09
(BOC Res. 89-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in February 2011 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 83-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in January 2011 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 82-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

Board of Control — Kirtland Pump Station
Raw Water Main Cathodic Protection System — per Ord. 444-10 to Corrpro Companies, Inc. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 84-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 65th St., 1551 (Ward 7) — PPN 106-12-018 — Phyllis Duncan (BOC Res. 91-11) . . . . . . . .
East 92nd St., 1378 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-12-034 — Wanda Hudson (BOC Res. 93-11) . . . . . . . .
East 92nd St., 1431 (Ward 7) — PPN 107-13-092 — Ruby S. Bell-Waters (BOC Res. 92-11) . . . .
East 95th St., 848 (Ward 8) — PPN 108-20-073 — Henry Shepard, Jr. (BOC Res. 94-11) . . . . . .
West 83rd St., 2040 (Ward 15) — PPN 006-03-122 — HUD/Fannie Mae property — Cuyahoga
County Land Reutilization Corporation (BOC Res. 90-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

375
376
376
376

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Board of Control — Land Sales
East 105th St., 1350 — PPN 107-23-009 — sell to Famicos Foundation per Ord. 1666-09
(BOC Res. 89-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Banner Fee and Deposit — per C.O. Sec. 571.90 — Division of Burke Lakefront Airport
(BOC Res. 86-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Escalators and moving sidewalk cleaning — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to The Jands Group, Inc. —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 85-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Noise monitoring system software upgrades — consent to assignment to ITT Corporation —
Contract #PS2010-229 per BOC Res. 335-07 (BOC Res. 88-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Runway 10-28 renovation and upgrade safety areas, Phase II — approve subcontractors —
Contract #PI2010-71 per BOC Res. 455-10, 494-10 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (BOC Res. 87-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

383

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

The City Record

58

March 16, 2011

Runway, taxiway, ramp, road and other concrete surface repair — approve subcontractors —
Contract #67442 per BOC Res. 550-07 (BOC Res. 95-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 376

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Noise monitoring system software upgrades — consent to assignment to ITT Corporation —
Contract #PS2010-229 per BOC Res. 335-07 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 88-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375

Board of Control — Public Auditorium
Interior Door improvements — amend BOC Res. 17-11 — Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 96-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Kirtland-Baldwin Raw Water Main Cathodic Protection System — per Ord. 444-10 to Corrpro
Companies, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 84-11) . . . . . . . . .
Public Auditorium Interior Door improvements — amend BOC Res. 17-11 — Dept. of
Public Works (BOC Res. 96-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Runway 10-28 renovation and upgrade safety areas, Phase II — approve subcontractors —
Contract #PI2010-71 per BOC Res. 455-10, 494-10 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 87-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Runway, taxiway, ramp, road and other concrete surface repair — approve subcontractors —
Contract #67442 per BOC Res. 550-07 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 95-11). . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 376

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Kirtland-Baldwin Raw Water Main Cathodic Protection System — per Ord. 444-10 to Corrpro
Companies, Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 84-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Public Auditorium Interior Door improvements — amend BOC Res. 17-11 (BOC Res. 96-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
East 105th St., 1350 — PPN 107-23-009 — sell to Famicos Foundation per Ord. 1666-09
(BOC Res. 89-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in February 2011 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 83-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in January 2011 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 82-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Escalators and moving sidewalk cleaning — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to The Jands Group, Inc. —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 85-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

Board of Control — Water Division
Kirtland-Baldwin Raw Water Main Cathodic Protection System — per Ord. 444-10 to Corrpro
Companies, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 84-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Brookpark Road, 12800, (Ward 18) – 12800 Brookpark Road LLC, owner, and Lakefront Lines,
tenant — appeal withdrawn on 3/14/11 (Cal. 11-18) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 5900, (Ward 15) – Bob Muschamp, owner — appeal postponed to 4/25/11 on
3/14/11 (Cal. 11-3). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 108th Street, 3662, (Ward 2) – Betty Russell, owner — appeal heard on 3/14/11
(Cal. 11-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 146th Street, 935, (Ward 10) – Kimberly Vance, owner — appeal heard on 3/14/11
(Cal. 10-258) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 84th Street, 1549, (Ward 7) – Susan Whatley, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
3/14/11 (Cal. 11-14). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleet Avenue, 5703, (Ward 12) – Gerald Rudowsky, owner — appeal heard on
3/14/11 (Cal. 11-16). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Avenue, 13017835, (Ward 12) – Catholic Diocese of Cleveland, owner and Treatment
Works, Inc., lessee — appeal withdrawn on 3/14/11 (Cal. 10-267) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 9431, (Ward 16) – The Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation,
owner — appeal heard on 3/14/11 (Cal. 11-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Black, Ramon – appeal to be heard on 3/28/11 (Cal. 11-21). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378
Lakeside Avenue, 3232, (Ward 3) – Theodore J. Talliere, manager and Charles R.
Fleck, owner — appeal to be heard on 3/28/11 (Cal. 11-20) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378

384

March 16, 2011

The City Record

59

Magnolia Drive, 10723, (Ward 8) – Mt. Zion Congregational Church, owner — appeal to be
heard on 3/28/11 (Cal. 11-29) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378

Budget
Appropriations — year 2011- current expenses and other expenses — Finance Department
(O 140-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 367

City Council
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — Council Meeting of March 14, 2011
(F 348-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

City of Cleveland Bids
Clothing, uniform — Department of Public Safety — Division of Fire — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 —
bid due April 7, 2011 (advertised 3/16/2011 and 3/23/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hazardous and Non-Hazardous Waste Disposal and Recycling services — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 1598-10 — bid due April 7, 2011
(advertised 3/16/2011 and 3/23/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
HVAC/R supplies and equipment (Re-Bid) — Department of Public Works — Division of
Property Management — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due April 15, 2011
(advertised 3/16/2011 and 3/23/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Manufacturing Road sewer replacement project — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 597-10 — bid due April 6, 2011
(advertised 3/9/2011 and 3/16/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Medical supplies — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due April 14, 2011
(advertised 3/16/2011 and 3/23/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office supplies — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due April 6, 2011
(advertised 3/9/2011 and 3/16/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Painting and paint removal on roadways, runways and paved surfaces (Re-bid) — Department
of Port Control — per Ord. 409-10 — bid due April 14, 2011 (advertised 3/16/2011 and 3/23/2011)
Pearldale Avenue sewer repair and relining — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 398-09 — bid due March 25, 2011
(advertised 3/9/2011 and 3/16/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pipe repair couplings, Group A & B — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water —
per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due April 15, 2011 (advertised 3/16/2011 and 3/23/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewer maintenance appurtenances — slabs — Department of Public Utilities — Division of
Water Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 129.27 — bid due April 13, 2011
(advertised 3/16/2011 and 3/23/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, large capacity — Department of Public Works — Division of Streets — per Ord.
1504-10 — bid due April 14, 2011 (advertised 3/16/2011 and 3/23/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 380

. . . . . . . . . . . 379

. . . . . . . . . . . 380

. . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . 380
. . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . 380

. . . . . . . . . . . 379
. . . . . . . . . . . 380

. . . . . . . . . . . 380
. . . . . . . . . . . 380

City Planning Commission
Detroit Ave. (between W. 85th St. & W. 70th St. And northeast corner of Lake Ave.) — change
use district — Local Retail Business (O 337-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Expanding Broadway Corridor Design Review District — Zoning (Ward 12) (O 333-11) . . . . . . .
Harvard Ave. (East of East 131st St.) — change use and area district — local retail
business — (O 336-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lake Ave., Detroit Ave. & West 78th St. — change use district — Multi-Family Residential
(O 339-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. (between West 25th St, West 32nd St, Gehring St., Jay Ave., & Chatham Rd.) —
change use and area districts — local retail business & ‘C’ area district (Ward
03) (O 334-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Rd. (between West 85th St. & Gehring St.) — pedestrian retail overlay district —
(O 346-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North & south sides of Detroit Ave. (West of W. 25th St. & East of West 32nd St.) — change
use, area and height districts — local retail business, a ‘D’ area district, a ‘2’
or a ‘3’ height district — (O 335-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North & south sides of Detroit Ave. (between W. 70th St. & W. 45th St.) — change use, area
and height districts — local retail business, ‘C’ area district & ‘2’ height
district (O 341-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repeal Sect(s.) Of Chapters 688, 689, 690, 692, and 692a, — enacted or amended by various
ordinances, relating to billiard rooms, bowling alleys, dance halls and dances,
music entertainment, and coin operated amusement devices, tattooing & body piercing —
relating to zoning and entertainment venues (O 347-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Southeast corner of Lorain Ave. And West 65th St. — change use and height districts — open
space and recreation & ‘1’ height district (O 342-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
South of Detroit Avenue & East side of West 55th St. — change use district — Two Family
Residential District (O 340-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
South of Lorain Ave. (between West 41St. & West 38th St.) — change use, area and height
districts — Local Retail , ‘d’ Area district, ‘3’ Height district (O 345-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
South side of Lorain Ave. (between W. 55th St. & West 52 St.) — change use district — Local
Retail Business (O 343-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

385

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 356

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 365

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 350

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 358

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 336
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 357
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 364
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 362

The City Record

60

March 16, 2011

South side of Lorain Ave. (between W. 50th St. & West 48th PL.) — change use and height
districts — Two Family Residential District & ‘1’ height district (O 344-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 363
Southwest corner of Lake Ave. & Detroit Ave. — change use district — General Retail
Business (O 338-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 355

Clerk of Council
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — Council Meeting of March 14, 2011
(F 348-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

Codified Ordinances
Public work — Enact 131.081 rotunda rental and amend 131.78 parking rates (O 332-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 335
Repeal Sect(s.) Of Chapters 688, 689, 690, 692, and 692a, — Enacted or amended by various
ordinances, relating to billiard rooms, bowling alleys, dance halls and dances,
music entertainment, and coin operated amusement devices, tattooing & body piercing —
relating to Zoning and Entertainment Venues (O 347-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 336
Safety Department — amend various codified ord. Sect(s) 676 — scrap metal dealers (O 329-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

Communications
Attorney Tyresha Brown-O’Neil — notice of withdrawal as counsel for Amber R. Wells & Lake
Shore Cocktail, LLC. — permit # 4979600 — liquor application (F 351-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin, Sandra — Clerk of Council Pro Tempore — Council Meeting of March 14, 2011
(F 348-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office of Capital Projects — Contract No. 68828 — Messina Floor Covering, LLC., —
improvement of Convention Center Carpet (F 352-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office of Capital Projects — Contract No. 69571 — R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — improvement
to former Coast Guard Station (lantern structural steel replacement) (F 353-11). . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State Senator Michael J. Skindell — re: acknowledgement receipt of Council Res. No.
21-11; Res. No. 103-11; Res. No. 148-11, and Res. No. 209-11; Res. No. 211-11 —
(F 350-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State Senator Nina Turner — re: acknowledgement receipt of Council Res. No. 102-11;
Res. No. 103-11; Res. No. 148-11, and Res. No. 211-11 (F 349-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

Community Development
Amend Ord. No. 1289-10 — St. John West Family Home Land Bank (O 294-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
Buckeye Rd., 12615 — PPN. 129-16-035 — Land Reutilization Program — Harper Industries,
Inc. (Ward 06) (O 180-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367
East 75th St. — PPN 133-02-033/034 — Land Reutilization Program — Chad Murray (Ward 12)
(O 179-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367
Federal Home Grant Program (2011) — Emergency Shelter Grant — Housing Opportunities for
Persons with Aids Program — Year XXXVII (O 190-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367
St. Clair Avenue — PPN. 104-10-055- Land Reutilization Program — Ohio Technical College
(Ward 08) (O 133-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367

Community Development Block Grant Programs
Federal Home Grant Program (2011) — Emergency Shelter Grant — Housing Opportunities for
Persons with Aids Program -Year XXXVII — Community Development Department
(O 190-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367

Contracts
Economic development — agreement — The Greater Cleveland Sports Commission (O 181-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367
Economic Development Department — Amend Ord. No. 1958-05 — One Source (O 330-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 334
Port control — required contract- electrical maintenance for airport properties (O 323-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330
Office of Capital Projects — Contract No. 68828 — Messina Floor Covering, LLC, —
improvement of Convention Center Carpet (F 352-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
Office of Capital Projects — Contract No. 69571 — R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — improvement
to former Coast Guard Station (lantern structural steel replacement) (F 353-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
Public works — contract — City Year (O 324-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330
Public works — contract — Cleveland Municipal Football Association — City-wide Football
Program (O 325-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330

Convention Center
Office of Capital Projects — Contract No. 68828 — Messina Floor Covering, LLC., —
improvement of Convention Center Carpet (F 352-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

Economic Development Department
Agreement — The Greater Cleveland Sports Commission (O 181-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367
Amend Ord. No. 1958-05 — One Source (O 330-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 334
Amend Ord. No. 414-10 — grant — Environmental Cleanup & Demolition — St. Vincent Charity
Hospital (O 331-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 334

386

March 16, 2011

The City Record

61

Finance Department
Appropriations — year 2011- current expenses and other expenses (O 140-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 367
Public Works — professional services — temporary & seasonal personnel for outsourcing Parks
and Finance department (O 250-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367

Grants
Economic development — Amend 414-10 — Environmental Cleanup & Demolition — St. Vincent
Charity Hospital (O 331-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 334
Federal Home Grant Program (2011) — Emergency Shelter Grant — Housing Opportunities for
Persons with Aids program — Year XXXVII- Community Development Department
(O 190-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367
Safety Department — Apply and accept Ohio Drug Law Enforcement, 2010 (O 327-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330
Safety Department — Apply and accept Ohio Drug Use Prevention Grant (O 326-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330
Safety Department — Apply and accept Sexual Assault Kit Grant (O 328-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

Housing and Urban Development (Hud)
Federal Home Grant Program (2011) — Emergency Shelter Grant — Housing Opportunities for
Persons with Aids Program -Year XXXVII — Community Development Department
(O 190-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367

Land Reutilization Program
Amend Ord. No. 1289-10 — St. John West Family Home Land Bank (O 294-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
Buckeye Rd., 12615 — PPN. 129-16-035 — Harper Industries, Inc. (Ward 06) (O 180-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367
East 75th St.. — PPN. 133-02-033/034 — Chad Murray (Ward 12) (O 179-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367
St. Clair Avenue — PPN. 104-10-055- Ohio Technical College (Ward 08) (O 133-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367

Liquor Permits
Aetna Rd., 9102 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 5) (F 355-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Attorney Tyresha Brown-O’Neil — notice of withdrawal as counsel for Amber R. Wells & Lake
Shore Cocktail, LLC, — permit # 4979600 — liquor application (F 351-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community College Blvd., 3609 — objection to issuance (Ward 05) (R 300-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Frankfort Ave., 620 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 3) (F 354-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., 1222 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 146-11
(Ward 03) (R 302-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 7909 — additional class application (Ward 05) (F 356-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330

Peddlers
Serrano, Elvis O. — mobile peddling (Ward 03) (O 297-11).
Serrano, Elvis O. — mobile peddling (Ward 09) (O 298-11).
Serrano, Elvis O. — mobile peddling (Ward 14) (O 299-11).
Sheppard, Joe — peddling (Ward 5) (O 296-11). . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

382
382
382
381

Permits
Sheppard, Joe — peddling (Ward 5) (O 296-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381
West 81st St. (between Franklin Blvd. & Detroit Ave.) — residential parking area
(Ward 15) (R303-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Port Control Department
Contract- electrical maintenance for airport properties (O 323-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330

Professional Services
Public Works — temporary & seasonal personnel for outsourcing Parks and Finance department
(O 250-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367

Public Improvements
Office of Capital Projects — Contract No. 68828 — Messina Floor Covering, LLC, —
improvement of Convention Center Carpet (F 352-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
Office of Capital Projects — Contract No. 69571 — R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — improvement
to former Coast Guard Station (lantern structural steel replacement) (F 353-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

Public Works
Professional services — temporary & seasonal personnel for outsourcing Parks and Finance
Department (O 250-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367

387

The City Record

62

March 16, 2011

Resolution of Support
Ohio State Senator Michael J. Skindell — re: acknowledgement receipt of Council Res. No.
21-11; Res. No. 103-11; Res. No. 148-11, and Res. No. 209-11; Res. No. 211-11(F 350-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
Ohio State Senator Nina Turner — re: acknowledgement receipt of Council Res. No. 102-11;
Res. No. 103-11; Res. No. 148-11, and Res. No. 211-11 (F 349-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
West 81st St. (between Franklin Blvd. & Detroit Ave.) — permit — residential parking area
(Ward 15) (R 303-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Ohio State Senator Michael J. Skindell — re: acknowledgement receipt of Council Res. No.
21-11; Res. No. 103-11; Res. No. 148-11, and Res. No. 209-11; Res. No. 211-11(F 350-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
Ohio State Senator Nina Turner — re: acknowledgement receipt of Council Res. No. 102-11;
Res. No. 103-11; Res. No. 148-11, and Res. No. 211-11 (F 349-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329
West 81st St. (between Franklin Blvd. & Detroit Ave.) — permit — residential parking area
(Ward 15) (R 303-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Safety Department
Apply and Accept Ohio Drug Law Enforcement, 2010 — Grant (O 327-11). .
Apply and Accept Ohio Drug Use Prevention Grant (O 326-11) . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply and Accept Sexual Assault Kit Grant (O 328-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend various Codified Ord. Sect(s) 676 — scrap metal dealers (O 329-11)

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

330
330
331
331

St. Vincent Charity Hospital
Economic Development — Amend 414-10 — Grant — Environmental Cleanup & Demolition St.
Vincent Charity Hospital (O 331-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 334

Ward 02
Harvard Ave. (East of East 131st St.) — change use and area district — Local Retail
business — City Planning Commission (O 336-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351

Ward 03
Economic Development Department — Amend Ord. No. 1958-05 — One Source (O 330-11) . . . . . .
Frankfort Ave., 620 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 354-11) . . . . . . . . .
Serrano, Elvis O. — mobile peddling (Ward 03) (O 297-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. (between West 25th St, West 32nd St, Gehring St., Jay Ave., & Chatham Rd.) —
change use and area districts — local retail business & ‘c’ area district — City
Planning Commission (O 334-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Rd. (between West 85th St. & Gehring St.) — pedestrian retail overlay district —
City Planning Commission (O 346-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North & south sides of Detroit Ave. (West of W. 25th St. & East of West 32nd St.) — change
use, area and height districts — Local Retail Business, a ‘d’ area district, a ‘2’
or a ‘3’ height district — City Planning commission (O 335-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., 1222 — withdraw objection to transfer of liquor license — repeal Res. 146-11 —
liquor permit (R 302-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 334
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 330
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 382

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 365

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 350
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380

Ward 05
Aetna Rd., 9102 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (Ward 5) (F 355-11)
Amend Ord. No. 1289-10 — St. John West Family Home Land Bank (O 294-11) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community College Blvd., 3609 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 300-11) . . . . . .
Sheppard, Joe — peddling (Ward 5) (O 296-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 7909 — additional class application — liquor permit (F 356-11) . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

330
381
380
381
330

Ward 06
Buckeye Rd., 12615 — PPN. 129-16-035 — Land Reutilization program — Harper Industries,
Inc. (O 180-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367

Ward 08
St. Clair Avenue — PPN. 104-10-055- Land Reutilization Program — Ohio Technical College
(O 133-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367

Ward 09
Serrano, Elvis O. — mobile peddling (Ward 09) (O 298-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 382

388

March 16, 2011

The City Record

63

Ward 12
East 75th St. — PPN. 133-02-033/034 — Land Reutilization Program — Chad Murray (O 179-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366-367
Expanding Broadway Corridor Design Review District — Zoning (Ward 12) (O 333-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348

Ward 14
Serrano, Elvis O. — mobile peddling (Ward 14) (O 299-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 382

Ward 15
Detroit Ave. (between W. 85th St. & W. 70th St. And northeast corner of Lake Ave.) — change
use district — City Planning Commission (O 337-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lake Ave., Detroit Ave. & West 78th St. — change use district — Multi-Family Residential —
City Planning Commission (O 339-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Rd. (between West 85th St. & Gehring St.) — pedestrian retail overlay district —
City Planning Commission (O 346-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North & south sides of Detroit Ave. (between W. 70th St. & W. 45th St.) — change use, area
and height districts — Local Retail Business, ‘C’ area district & ‘2’ height
district — City Planning Commission (O 341-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Southeast corner of Lorain Rd., And West 65th St. — change use and height districts — open
space and recreation & ‘1’ height district — City Planning Commission (O 342-11) . . . . . . .
South of Detroit Avenue & East side of West 55th St. — change use district — Two Family
Residential District — City Planning Commission (O 340-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
South of Lorain Ave. (between West 41St. & West 38th St.) — change use, area and height
districts — Local Retail, ‘D’ area district, ‘3’ height district — City
Planning Commission (O 345-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
South side of Lorain Ave. (between W. 55th St. & West 52 St.) — change use district — Local
Retail Business — City Planning Commission (O 343-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
South side of Lorain Ave. (between W. 50th St. & West 48th Pl.) — change use and height
districts — Two Family Residential District & ‘1’ height district -City
Planning Commission (O 344-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Southwest corner of Lake Ave. & Detroit Ave. — change use district — general retail
business — City Planning Commission (O 338-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 81st St. (between Franklin Blvd. & Detroit Ave.) — permit — residential parking area
(R 303-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 356
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 365

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 358
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 357

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 364
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 362

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 363
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 355
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 381

Zoning
Detroit Ave. (between W. 85th St. & W. 70th St. . And northeast corner of Lake Ave.) —
change use district — City Planning Commission (O 337-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Expanding Broadway Corridor Design Review District — Zoning (Ward 12) (O 333-11) . . . . . . .
Harvard Ave. (East of East 131st St.) — change use and area district — Local Retail
Business — City Planning Commission (O 336-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lake Ave., Detroit Ave. & West 78th St. — change use district — Multi-Family Residential —
City Planning Commission (O 339-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. (between West 25th St, West 32nd St, Gehring St., Jay Ave., & Chatham Rd.) —
change use and area districts — Local Retail Business & ‘c’ area district — City
Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 334-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Rd. (between West 85th St. & Gehring St.) — pedestrian retail overlay district —
City Planning Commission (O 346-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North & south sides of Detroit Ave. (west of W. 25th St. & East of West 32nd St.) — change
use, area and height districts — Local Retail Business, a ‘d’ area district, a ‘2’
or a ‘3’ height district — City Planning Commission (O 335-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North & south sides of Detroit Ave. (between W 70th St. & W 45th St.) — change use , area
and height districts — Local Retail Business , ‘c’ area district & ‘2’ height
district — City Planning Commission (O 341-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repeal Sect(s.) Of Chapters 688, 689, 690, 692, and 692a, — enacted or amended by various
ordinances, relating to billiard rooms, bowling alleys, dance halls and dances,
music entertainment, and coin operated amusement devices, tattooing & body piercing —
relating to Zoning and Entertainment Venues (O 347-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Southeast corner of Lorain Rd. And West 65th St. — change use and height districts — open
space and recreation & ‘1’ height district — City Planning Commission (O 342-11) . . . . . . . .
South of Detroit Avenue & East side of West 55th St. — change use district — Two Family
Residential District — City Planning Commission (O 340-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
South side of Lorain Ave. (between W. 50th St. & West 48th PL.) — change use and height
districts — Two Family Residential District & ‘1’ height district — City Planning
Commission (O 344-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
South of Lorain Ave. (between West 41St. & West 38th St.) — change use, area and height
districts — Local Retail , ‘d’ area district, ‘3’ height district — City Planning
Commission (O 345-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
South side of Lorain Ave. (between W. 55th St. & West 52 St.) — change use district — Local
Retail Business — City Planning Commission (O 343-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Southwest corner of Lake Ave. & Detroit Ave. — change use district — General Retail
Business — City Planning Commission (O338-11)

389

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 356

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 365

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 350

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 358

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 336
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 357

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 363

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 364
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 362

