The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

February the Sixteenth, Two Thousand and Eleven

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney

Containing

PAGE

President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
19
19
21
22
24
24
24
24
25
32
32

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
Name Residence
1 Terrell H. Pruitt 3877 East 189th Street 44122
2 Zachary Reed 3734 East 149th Street 44120
3 Joe Cimperman P.O. Box 91688 44101
4 Kenneth L. Johnson 2948 Hampton Road 44120
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland 2369 East 36th Street 44105
6 Mamie J. Mitchell 12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712 44120
7 TJ Dow 7715 Decker Avenue 44103
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson 9024 Parkgate Avenue 44108
9 Kevin Conwell 10647 Ashbury Avenue 44106
10 Eugene R. Miller 13615 Kelso Avenue 44110
11 Michael D. Polensek 17855 Brian Avenue 44119
12 Anthony Brancatelli 6924 Ottawa Road 44105
13 Kevin J. Kelley 5904 Parkridge Avenue 44144
14 Brian J. Cummins 3104 Mapledale Avenue 44109
15 Matthew Zone 1228 West 69th Street 44102
16 Jay Westbrook 1278 West 103rd Street 44102
17 Dona Brady 1272 West Boulevard 44102
18 Martin J. Sweeney 3632 West 133rd Street 44111
19 Martin J. Keane 15907 Colletta Lane 44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – _________________, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Interim Director, Mural Building, 75
Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development – _______, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – _________, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director
Robert J. Triozzi; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lynn McLaughlin-Murray – Courtroom 12A
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan – Courtroom 13A
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2011

Vol. 98

No. 5071

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

MONDAY — Alternating

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Committee:
Cimperman,
Services
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.

______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, February 14, 2011
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff, Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer, Valarie J. McCall, Chief
of Government Affairs, Chris Warren, Chief of Regional Development,
Monyka S. Price, Chief of Education,
Maureen Harper, Chief of Communications, Andrew Watterson, Chief of
Sustainability, Natoya J. WalkerMinor, Chief of Public Affairs —
Interim Director of Office of Equal
Opportunity, and Directors Triozzi,
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Flask, Cox,
Rush,
Rybka,
Griffin,
Brown,
Fumich, Lucille Ambroz, Secretary,
Civil Service,
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76
prayer was offered by Council Member Matthew Zone of Ward 15.
Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Mitchell, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Conwell.
PLATS
File No. 194-11.
Council
Member
Cimperman
(Ward 3).
Vacation and Dedication Plat for
Cul-d-sac @ West 29th Street

181

Approved by Planning Director;
Approved by Committees on City
Planning and Public Service.
Without objection, Plat approved.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 221-11—Rev. Willie Frank
Lamberson, Sr.
Res. No. 228-11—Virginia Hudson.
Res. No. 230-11—Rosa Lee Whatley-Hamilton.
Res. No. 231-11—Rev. Artis Lawson Dorsey.
Res. No. 232-11—Pauline Benton
Bryant.
Res. No. 233-11—Mark Falcone.
Res. No. 234-11—Ruby Jefferson.
Res. No. 235-11—Carol Curran.
Res. No. 236-11—Mrs. Irene Pelican.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 237-11—Lithuania’s Independence — 93rd Anniversary.
Res. No. 238-11—Sista Jewel Jackson.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 239-11—Women In Worship Choir (3rd Annual Women’s
Conference).
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 240-11—Kenneth L. Fleming.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 207-11.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 623.10 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1020-76,
passed June 14, 1976 relating to spray
painting property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 623.10 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1020-76, passed June 14, 1976 is
hereby amended to read as follows:

4
Section 623.10 Spray Painting Property
(a) No person shall intentionally,
maliciously or recklessly destroy,
damage or deface in any way any public or private property by the use of
spray paint or any other paint or any
other similar substance. Public or private property shall include the following:
(1) Public or private buildings,
including sidewalks about such
grounds and all appurtenances thereto, fences or trees;
(2) Public street lights, fire
hydrants, pumps, fountains, inlets,
manholes or sewer ventilators;
(3) Telephone or telegraph wires or
electric wires of any kind or the poles
sustaining or attaching thereto;
(4) Statues, monuments or plaques;
(5) Official notices or signs posted
by the State, the City or any other public agency.
(b) Whoever violates this section is
guilty of spray painting property, a
misdemeanor of the first degree and
shall be fined not less than $1,000 or
be imprisoned for not less than 6
months. No portion of this sentence
shall be suspended or reduced.
Section 2. That existing Section
623.10 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1020-76, passed June 14,
1976 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Law; Committees on Public
Safety, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 210-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
various sections of Chapters 241, 508,
and 675 of the codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended and
enacted by various ordinances relating to vendors; to supplement the codified ordinances by enacting new Sections 241.051, 241.36, 241.37, and 241.38,
relating to mobile food shops; and to
rename Chapter 675 to “Street Vendors.”
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 241.01, 241.02, and 241.03, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 2163-01,
passed May 20, 2002,
Section 241.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 2303-04, passed January 24,
2005,
Sections 241.06, 241.07, 241.32, and
241.99, as enacted by Ordinance No.
2163-01, passed May 20, 2002,
Sections 508.01, 508.03, 508.05, and
508.07, as enacted by Ordinance No.
1611-83, passed June 27, 1983,
Section 508.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 1428-92, passed July 22, 1992,
Section 508.09, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1611-83, passed June 27,
1983,
Section 675.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 1158-09, passed October 5,
2009,
Section 675.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3,
2003,

The City Record
Section 675.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 1428-92, passed July 22, 1992,
Section 675.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 1158-09, passed October 5,
2009,
Section 675.041, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1612-83, passed June 27,
1983,
Sections 675.05, 675.06, 675.07, and
675.08, as amended by Ordinance No.
2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Section 675.09, as amended by Ordinance No. 1203-10, passed November
29, 2010,
Section 675.10, as amended by Ordinance No. 1670-92, passed August 19,
1992, and
Section 675.99, as amended by Ordinance No. 137-A-91, passed June 17,
1991
are amended to read as follows:
Section 241.01 Rules and Regulations
The Directors of Public Health and
Capital Projects are authorized to
adopt such written rules and regulations as may be necessary for the
proper interpretation and enforcement of this chapter. Such rules and
regulations upon adoption, shall be
published in the City Record for two
consecutive weeks and shall be in
effect on and after fifteen days from
the second publication therein. Such
rules and regulations shall have the
force and effect of this chapter and
continue in effect until revoked by
the respective Director or by ordinance of Council.
Section 241.02 Enforcement and
Inspection
The Commissioner of Environment,
and/or authorized employees who are
registered sanitarians or sanitariansin-training are charged with the
enforcement of this chapter. Any such
person shall have the right to enter
and inspect any place where the business of food is engaged in. No person
shall refuse or hinder inspection, or
fail to answer all reasonable questions relative to handling food or fail
to furnish upon request any records
deemed necessary for the enforcement of this chapter. If the Commissioner and/or authorized employees
find, or have cause to believe, that
within a retail food establishment or
food service operation in their jurisdiction food is adulterated, or so misbranded as to be dangerous or fraudulent, said food may be embargoed in
accordance with OAC 901:3-4-15 and
may be taken for examination, free of
charge. Whenever the Commissioner
and/or authorized employees find in
any food shop, any meat, seafood,
poultry, vegetable, fruit, or other perishable foods that are unsound, or
contain any filthy, decomposed, or
putrid substance, or that may be poisonous or deleterious to health or otherwise unsafe, the foods are declared
to be a nuisance, and shall forthwith
be condemned or destroyed, or in any
other manner rendering the items
unsalable as human food. The Director Capital Projects shall have concurrent authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter not specifically
delegated to the Director of Public
Health or Commissioner of Environment.
Section 241.03 Definitions
(a) As used in this chapter: The definitions contained in Revised Code
Chapter 3715 and Chapter 3717 pertaining to the administration and
enforcement of food safety programs
are adopted and incorporated by the

182

February 16, 2011
City of Cleveland as if set forth herein.
(b) “Food shop” applies to “retail
food establishment” and “food service
operation,” as those terms are defined
in Revised Code Chapter 3717.
(c) “Mobile food shop” means a
“mobile retail food establishment” or
“mobile food service operation,” as
those terms are defined in Revised
Code Chapter 3717.
(d) “Vendor” means a mobile food
shop.
(e) “Food Item” mean a raw,
cooked, or processed edible substance, ice, beverage, or ingredient
used or intended for use or for sale in
whole or in part for human consumption. Food includes ice, water or any
other beverage, food ingredients, and
chewing gum.
(f) “Street” means street, alley,
highway, roadway, or avenue.
(g) “Vending device” means a container for the sale, display or transport of food items by a vendor.
Section 241.05 Food Shop Licenses
and Fees
(a) No food shop shall be operated
without the person, firm, association,
or corporation conducting the business first applying for and obtaining
an annual license issued by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses.
(b) Chapters 3715 and 3717 of the
Revised Code pertaining to the licensing, administration and enforcement
of food safety programs by the local
licensing authority is adopted and
incorporated herein by the City of
Cleveland.
(c) The holder of a food service
operation license as defined by state
law shall not be required to obtain a
retail food establishment license
except when the activities of a retail
food establishment and a food service
operation are carried on within the
same facility by the same person or
entity, then the determination of
what license applies shall be made
according to the primary business of
the person or entity as determined by
the licensor, the City of Cleveland
Director
of
Public
Health,
as
described in Section 3717.44 of the
Revised Code.
(d) For a mobile food service operation or mobile retail food establishment, the annual fee shall be two hundred sixty-three dollars and forty-four
cents ($263.44).
(e) For a vending food service operation, the annual fee shall be twentynine dollars and sixty-five cents
($29.65).
(f) For a temporary commercial
food service operation and temporary
retail food establishments, the fee
shall be forty dollars ($40.00) per fiveday event. For a temporary non-commercial food service operation and
temporary retail food establishments,
the fee shall be twenty dollars
($20.00) per five-day event.
(g) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses may also collect
fees for collection and bacteriological
examination of samples taken from a
food shop in an amount equal to the
cost of such collection and examination as determined by the Commissioner of Environment.
(h) Except for plans pertaining to
mobile or temporary food service
operations or vending devices, the
Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses shall collect fees in the
amounts stated below, for plan
reviews of food shops prior to submission of plans to the Division of Environment:

The City Record

February 16, 2011
Plan Review Fee
Commercial

Non-Commercial

New Operations,
less than 25,000 sq. feet
$150.00
New Operations,
greater than 25,000 sq. feet
$300.00

$ 75.00

$150.00

Extensive Alteration,
less than 25,000 sq. feet
$ 75.00

$ 37.50

Extensive Alteration,
greater than 25,000 sq. feet
$100.00

$ 50.00

(i) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall submit all
applications for a food shop license to
the City of Cleveland Director of Public Health for approval or disapproval
of the application.
(j) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses is authorized to
collect license fees for retail food
establishments and food service operations and deposit the fees into a fund
created under Sections 3717.25 and
3717.45 of the Revised Code.
(k) For purposes of this section,
noncommercial organizations are
defined as organizations such as
churches, or non-profit organizations
operated exclusively for charitable
purposes as defined in division
(B)(12) of Section 5739.02 of the
Revised Code, provided that displayed foods are not displayed for
more than seven (7) consecutive days
or more than fifty-two (52) separate
days per year.
(l) For a food service operation, a
penalty of twenty five percent (25%)
of any license fee required by this section must be paid before the issuance
of the license if the required license
fee is not paid on or before the date it
is due.
Section 241.06 License or Permit
Disapproval; Revocation; Suspension;
Appeals
(a) The Commissioner of Environment, and/or authorized employees
who are registered sanitarians or sanitarians-in-training, may suspend or
revoke a food license upon determining that the license holder is in violation of any requirement of Revised
Code 3717 or the rules adopted thereunder, which are applicable to retail
food establishments and food service
operations, including a violation evidenced by the documented failure to
maintain sanitary conditions within
the operation.
(b) Except in the case of a violation
that presents an immediate danger to
the public health, prior to initiating
an action to suspend or revoke a food
license, the Commissioner of Environment, and/or authorized employees,
shall give the license holder written
notice specifying each violation and a
reasonable time within which each
violation must be corrected to avoid
suspension or revocation of the
license. The Commissioner, and/or
authorized employee, may extend the
time specified in the notice for correcting a violation if the license holder, in the sole discretion and determination of the Commissioner, is making a good faith effort to correct the
alleged violation. If the license holder
fails to correct the violation in the
time granted by the Commissioner,
and/or authorized employee, the Commissioner, and/or authorized employee, may initiate an action to suspend
or revoke the food license by giving
the license holder written notice of

the proposed suspension or revocation.
(c) In the case of a violation that
presents an immediate danger to the
public health, the Commissioner,
and/or authorized employee, may
issue an immediate order of suspension or revocation of a food license
without giving written notice or
affording the license holder the
opportunity to correct the violation.
(d) The license holder may appeal
the proposed suspension or revocation of food license or the immediate
order of suspension or revocation of
food license as provided in Revised
Code Sections 3717.29 and 3717.49 and
in conformance with the rules of procedure adopted there under. In such
cases, the Commissioner of Environment is charged with presiding over
the hearing and is authorized to render a decision denying, suspending or
revoking a license, or rendering a
decision to dissolve or continue an
issued suspension. A food license can
be suspended for a period up to thirty
(30) days.
(e) If a food license has been
revoked due to a violation of any of
the laws set forth in this section, then
such food shop may not reapply for a
license or permit to operate such a
business at the same location for a
period of six (6) months after the date
of revocation
Section 241.07 Display of License
and Permit
Every license issued according to
this chapter shall be displayed in a
conspicuous place upon the wall and
close to the entrance of the premises
where such business is conducted.
Food vehicles shall have displayed
the name and address of the business
on the side of such vehicle in letters at
least two inches high and shall have
displayed the vehicle permit plate
issued by the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses.
Section 241.32 Enforcement Requiring Extra Services; Costs
Whenever the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter requires
extraordinary services, the person,
firm or corporation requesting such
extraordinary services shall pay the
cost of such services as determined by
the Department of Public Health.
Section 241.99 Penalty
(a) Whoever violates Section 241.05
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree on a first offense; for a
second offense or subsequent offense,
such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree. Each
Day the violation continues is a separate offense.
(b) Whoever violates Sections
241.36, 241.37, or 241.38 is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor, and shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00). The fine set forth herein is mandatory and shall not be suspended by the court in whole or in
part. Each day upon which a violation
occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(1) In addition to any other method
of enforcement provided for in this
chapter, the provisions of division (b)
of this section may be enforced by the
issuance of a citation in compliance
with Rule 4.1 of the Ohio Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
(2) If the offender persists in
improper operations after reasonable
warning or request to desist, improper operations is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.

183

5
(c) Unless otherwise specified in
this chapter, whoever violates any of
the provisions of this chapter, or of
any ordinance amending or supplementing such provisions, shall be
guilty of a first degree misdemeanor
and fined no more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for
not more than six months, or both.
Section 508.01 Definitions
When used in this Chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
(a) “Central Business District”
means the area defined in Section
325.10 of the Codified Ordinances.
(b) “Commissary” means a licensed
food facility regulated by a governmental entity where food is stored,
prepared, portioned, or packaged, or
any combination thereof, and where
such food is intended for consumption
at another establishment or place.
(c) “Community event” means an
event specifically approved granting
use of street and sidewalk areas within a specifically defined area for a
period of time not exceeding ten (10)
days to a community based organization.
(d) “Director” means the Director of
Capital Projects or his or her
designee.
(e) “Permit” means a temporary
sidewalk occupancy permit authorized by Section 508.02 of the Codified
Ordinances.
(f) “Permittee” means the person
who owns the vending device permitted to occupy a stationary location on
a sidewalk.
(g) “Sidewalk” means that portion
of the street between the curb lines or
the lateral lines of a roadway and the
adjacent property line.
(h) “Vending device” means a container for the sale, display or transport of merchandise by a vendor, or
food items by a mobile food shop,
which has wheels and is capable of
being moved by one person by muscular power.
(i) “Unobstructed Walk” means a
clear, continuous paved surface free
of tree grates, elevator grates and all
vertical obstructions.
Section 508.03 Application for Permits
Application for a permit shall be
made to the Director in a form deemed
appropriate by him. Such application
shall include, but not be limited to, the
following information:
(a) Name and address of the applicant;
(b) A description of the vending
device to be located on the sidewalk;
(c) The Ohio license number of the
vending device, if applicable;
(d) A signed statement that the
applicant is the owner of the vending
device;
(e) The type of merchandise to be
sold;
(f) Evidence that all required
health licenses have been obtained;
(g) The location or alternative locations for which application for permit
is made;
(h) A signed statement that the permittee shall hold harmless the City of
Cleveland, its officers and employees
and shall indemnify the City of Cleveland, its officers and employees for
any claims or damage to property or
injury to persons which may be occasioned by any activity carried on
under the terms of the permit. Permittee shall furnish and maintain such
public liability, food products liability, and property damage insurance as
will protect permittee and the city
from all claims for damage to proper-

6
ty or bodily injury, including death,
which may arise from operations
under the permit or in connection
therewith. Such insurance shall provide coverage of not less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000) for bodily
injury for each person, one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000) for each
occurrence and not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for
property damage per occurrence.
Such insurance shall be without prejudice to coverage otherwise existing
therein, and shall name as additional
insured the City of Cleveland, its officers and employees, and shall further
provide that the policy shall not terminate or be cancelled prior to the
expiration date of the permit without
thirty (30) days’ written notice to the
Director. Before conducting business
at the location permitted by the Director, permittee shall name as an additional insured on the policies of insurance hereinabove required the owner
of the property abutting the space
between the prolongations of the
boundary lines of the location which
run perpendicular to the curbline to
the property line of the same side of
the street.
A separate application and permit
shall be required for each vending
device.
Section 508.05 Permitted Locations
(a) The Director shall compile a list
of permitted locations where the presence of vending devices on the sidewalk would be compatible with the
public interest in use of street and
sidewalk areas as public right-ofway. The Director may modify the list
from time to time as he or she deems
necessary.
(b) In compiling the list of permitted location the Director may consider the width of the sidewalk; the proximity and location of existing street
furniture, including but not limited to
signposts,
lamp
posts,
parking
meters, bus shelters, benches, phone
booths, and newspaper vending
devices; the presence of bus stops,
truck loading zones, and taxi stands;
pedestrian and vehicular traffic patterns; and other factors he or she
deems relevant.
(c) No permitted location shall be
within ten (10) feet of another permitted location.
(d) No permitted location shall be
designated where the clear, continuous, unobstructed sidewalk for the
passageway of pedestrians is reduced
to less than six (6) feet.
Section 508.07 Permitted Vending
Devices
The Director shall issue a permit to
the applicant only if the applicant’s
vending device meets all of the
requirements of this section.
(a) The vending device does not
occupy more than twenty-four (24)
square feet of sidewalk space; and, as
of the effective date of this section, a
license has been approved by the
Department of Public Health for the
vending device.
(b) If the vending device has a
heating apparatus, the vending
device shall have been inspected and
approved by the Fire Chief or his or
her designee for compliance with provisions of the City’s Fire Prevention
Code and State of Ohio Fire Code.
Section 508.08 Requirements and
Conditions of Permit
(a) Permittees and their agents
shall comply with all of the requirements of this section while engaged
in business at permitted locations:

The City Record
(1) Each vending device shall be
attended at all times by at least one
individual, who shall be licensed pursuant to Chapter 675 and/or 241.
(2) The vending device shall be
placed on the sidewalk only at the
location set forth in the permit.
(3) Except as otherwise provided
by Chapter 241, no vending device
shall remain in its permitted location
between the hours of midnight and
6:00 a.m., and no business shall be conducted from any permitted location
between those hours.
(4) Permittees and their agents
shall obey any lawful order of a police
officer to remove their vending
devices from the sidewalk if necessary to avoid congestion or obstruction in an emergency.
(5) Permittees or their agents selling food items from vending devices
are required to obtain a food shop
license under Chapter 241.
(6) Vending devices shall not be
serviced or cleaned at residences or
any other unapproved premises.
(7) Permittees and their agents
shall be responsible for keeping the
sidewalk area within twenty-five
(25) feet of the permitted location
free of litter. Permittees and their
agents shall provide a suitable container for the placement of paper,
wrappers, and other similar items by
customers and others.
(8) The permit, including a map of
the permitted location, shall be
affixed to the vending device at all
times that the vending device is located on the sidewalk.
(9) No permittee shall place upon
any sidewalk, street or highway any
stand, booth, rack, platform, table,
chair, vehicle, or device of any kind,
other than a vending device which
complies with the provisions of Section 508.07.
(10) Permittees and their agents
shall conduct business in compliance
with all applicable provisions of the
Codified Ordinances.
(11) No permittee or agent thereof
shall conduct business in violation of
the provisions of any ordinance providing for a community event.
(b) Permits issued by the Director
shall be subject to the following conditions:
(1) Each permit shall be personal
only and shall not be transferrable in
any manner.
(2) Each permit is valid only when
used at the location designated in the
permit.
(3) The permit as it applies to a
given location may be suspended by
the Council or the Director for up to
ten (10) days during the holding of a
community event.
Section 508.09 Permit Suspension
and Revocation
(a) The Director may suspend or
revoke the permit of any permittee if
the permittee or his or her agents
fails to abide by the provisions of Section 508.08 or if any required health
license has been suspended or
revoked.
(b) The Director shall give written
notice of suspension or revocation of
the permit to the permittee or his or
her agent stating the reasons therefor. If the reason for the suspension or
revocation is that a required health
license has been suspended or
revoked or that the permittee does not
have a currently effective insurance
policy as required by division (h) of
Section 508.03, the action shall be
effective upon giving such notice to
the permittee or to his or her agent.
Otherwise, such notice shall contain
the further provision that the action

184

February 16, 2011
shall become final and effective ten
(10) days thereafter unless, within
five (5) days of receipt of the notice,
the permittee requests a hearing
before the Director. The Director
shall forthwith hold the requested
hearing, at which time the permittee
shall be afforded the opportunity to
give his or her version of the facts
which gave rise to the Director’s
action. After the hearing the Director
shall determine whether to proceed
with the action or to rescind it.
The action of the Director may be
appealed in accordance with the provisions of the Charter.
Section 675.01 Definitions; Chapter
Scope
(a) For purposes of this chapter:
(1) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses.
(2) “Street Vending” or “Vending”
means selling, offering or displaying
for sale, or soliciting another to purchase, for present or future delivery,
any goods, wares, merchandise, subscriptions, services, pre-packaged
frozen desserts, or any combination
thereof from, in, upon, along, or
through the highways, streets, or
sidewalks, door-to-door on residential
property, or in the open air or from a
temporary shelter or vending device
upon private property.
(3) “Street Vendor” or “Vendor”
means any person who engages in
street vending. “Vendor” does not
include itinerant vendors or itinerant
wholesale produce dealers licensed
under Chapter 682 or food shops or
food vehicles licensed pursuant to
Chapter 241, unless such food shop or
food vehicle licensed under Chapter
241
vends
pre-packaged
frozen
desserts.
(4) “Person” means an individual,
corporation, partnership or association; provided, however, that for purposes of Section 675.02, “person” shall
mean a natural person only.
(5) “Sell” or “selling” includes
barter or bartering.
(6) “Sidewalk” means that portion
of the street between the curb lines or
the lateral lines of a roadway and the
adjacent property line.
(7) “Street” means street, alley,
highway, roadway or avenue, including all curbs along such streets.
(8) “Vending device” means a container for the sale, display or transport of goods, wares, merchandise, or
equipment used for menial tasks by a
vendor, which has wheels and is capable of being moved by one person by
muscular power.
(b) Scope of Chapter. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
sales made to dealers by commercial
travelers or selling agents in the
usual course of business, to bona fide
sales of goods, wares, or merchandise
by samples for future delivery, to
sales at trade shows or conventions,
or to sales by charitable organizations in conjunction with solicitations
for charity.
(c) Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to prohibit the distribution
of non-commercial handbills, cards,
leaflets, or other literature upon the
sidewalks of the City.
Section 675.02 Street Vendor’s
License Required; Application
(a) No person shall engage in vending anywhere in the City without a
vendor’s license issued under Section
675.03. The issuance of a vendor’s
license to a person shall not be
deemed to authorize agents or
employees of the person to vend without a license.

February 16, 2011
(b) The application for the license
required by division (a) of this section shall be made to the Commissioner on forms prescribed by the Commissioner. The application shall
include the following information:
(1) the name and address of the
applicant;
(2) a detailed description of the
goods, wares, or merchandise that the
applicant intends to sell; and
(3) such other information as the
Commissioner deems necessary to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
(c) In addition to the application
required by division (a) of this section, each applicant for a vendor’s
license shall furnish two (2) photographs of the applicant taken within thirty (30) days before the date of
application and of a size designated
by the Commissioner.
(d) The annual license fee shall be
sixty dollars ($60.00) which shall
cover the period beginning August 1
and ending July 31 of the following
year.
Section 675.03 Street Vendor’s
License: Issuance and Replacement
(a) Upon receipt of a completed
application and all other materials
required by Section 675.02, the Commissioner shall issue to the applicant
a vendor’s license and a laminated
identification card containing the
applicant’s photograph. The identification card shall be worn by and the
license shall be kept upon the person
of the vendor at all times during
which the vendor is engaged in vending.
(b) The license issued pursuant to
division (a) of this section shall contain the following information:
(1) The vendor’s name and address;
(2) a detailed description of the
goods, wares, or merchandise which
the vendor is authorized to sell;
(3) the license number and the
license expiration date.
(c) In the event that a licensed vendor loses the laminated identification
card issued pursuant to division (a)
of this section, the Commissioner
shall issue a replacement identification card upon payment by the vendor
of a fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
Section 675.04
Permits Required
A permit is required in each of the
following circumstances when vending is occurring upon the highways,
streets, or sidewalks, or to business
invitees upon or from private property:
(a) No person shall engage in vending upon or from private property
anywhere in the City without a permit issued in accordance with Section
675.05.
(b) No person shall engage in vending on the highways, streets or sidewalks within the Central Business
District without a permit issued in
accordance with Chapter 508 or without a permit issued in accordance
with Section 675.06.
(c) No person shall engage in vending while moving continuously from
place to place on the highways,
streets or sidewalks of the Central
Business District without a permit
issued in accordance with Section
675.06.
(d) No person shall engage in vending upon or from a fixed location on a
sidewalk outside of the Central Business District without a permit issued
in accordance with Section 675.07.
(e) No person shall engage in vending while moving continuously from
place to place on the highways,
streets, or sidewalks outside of the
Central Business District without a

The City Record
permit issued in accordance with Section 675.08.
Section 675.041 Street
Vendors
Advisory Committee
There is established a Street Vendors Advisory Committee consisting
of three members of Council, one of
whom shall be designated as chairman, appointed by the President of
Council; one member of the Division
of Police, appointed by the Chief of
Police; and one Assistant Director of
Law, appointed by the Director of
Law. The Committee shall assist vendors licensed under Section 675.03 to
resolve problems relating to street
sales and may communicate to the
Council recommendations for the
amendment of this chapter.
Section 675.05
Permit;
Vending
on Private Property
(a) Application. The application for
the permit required by division (a) of
Section 675.04 shall be made to the
Commissioner. The application shall
contain the following:
(1) the vendor’s name, address and
vendor’s license number;
(2) the name and address of the
owner of the private property upon
which the vendor intends to vend;
(3) if the vendor is the owner of the
private property, documentation of
the vendor’s ownership, and if the
vendor is not the owner of the private
property, documentation, signed by
the property owner, of the vendor’s
right to vend on the property;
(4) the address of the private property on which the vendor intends to
vend;
(5) a statement of the duration of
the proposed vending activity and
whether the applicant is seeking an
annual permit or a short-term permit;
(6) a description of the vending
device, if any, from which the vendor
intends to vend, including its size and
the distance from the vending device
to public sidewalks, parking lots, driveways and other areas used or
usable for vehicular travel or parking;
(7) a description of proposed trash
storage and waste disposal methods,
and a description of any electrical
and water connections and any fuels
or electrical generators to be used on
the premises;
(8) unless the application is for a
short-term vendor permit, a certification that the location of the vending
device will meet all building setback
requirements of the Zoning Code and
will not interfere with the safe movement of vehicles or pedestrians on the
subject property; and
(9) unless the application is for a
short-term vending permit, if the
applicant proposes to vend on a property located in a Design Review District or a Landmark District, the
applicant shall also submit color photographs showing all sides of the
vending device, if any, and a scaled
drawing showing all proposed signs
and decorative elements, including
their placement, material, and color.
(b) Council Notification. On receipt
of a permit application, the Commissioner shall notify the Council member in whose ward the proposed permit location lies that the application
has been received.
(c) Location of Vending Devices.
No person shall locate a vending
device on private property so as to
violate building setback requirements of the Zoning code or so as to
interfere with the safe movement of
vehicles or pedestrians on the subject
property.

185

7
(d) Building and Housing Referral.
The Commissioner shall refer all permit applications to the Director of
Building and Housing for review and
approval. As part of the review, the
Director of Building and Housing
shall determine whether or not the
property on which the proposed vending is to be conducted is in a Design
Review District, or a Landmark District, and shall report that determination to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses. The Director of
Building and Housing shall not
approve the application unless he or
she finds that no provisions of the
City’s Building Code or Zoning Code
will be violated by issuance of the
permit, including without limitation,
the following:
(1) set back requirements;
(2) use restrictions;
(3) if the vendor intends to operate
from a “structure” within the meaning
of the Building Code, those provisions
of the Building Code applicable to
“structures”; and
(4) if the vendor intends to operate
from private property that is a parking lot, those portions of the Zoning
Code that require that a specified
number of parking spaces be available for the use of particular business.
(e) Design Review. If the vendor
proposes to operate on a property
which is located in a Design Review
District, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall refer the
permit application to the City Planning Commission for design review
and approval. In the case of a property located in a Landmark District, the
referral shall be made to the Landmarks Commission. Design review
shall not be required if the vendor is
proposing to vend under a short-term
vending permit.
(1) In reviewing the application,
the City Planning Commission or
Landmarks Commission, as applicable, shall determine the appropriateness of any vending devices proposed
to be used with respect to the following factors:
A. physical condition and state of
repair;
B. compatibility with nearby structures in terms of color, placement,
heights, and general design;
C. obstructions to or conflicts with
vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
D. availability of electrical connections, and procedures for garbage and
waste disposal; and
E. impacts on scenic views.
(2) The Director of the City Planning Commission or Secretary of the
Landmarks Commission shall transmit the Commission’s determination
to the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses within thirty (30) days
of the referral of the application
unless the Commission conducting
the review has granted the applicant
an extension in order to allow for submission of additional materials or
revisions. The Commissions may seek
advice from any designated local
design review advisory committee.
(f) Short-Term Permits. If the vending activity is proposed to be conducted for a period of seven (7) days or
less, the Commissioner may issue a
short-term vending permit, except
that if any person or persons have
obtained a short-term vending permit
for a particular location on four prior
occasions in a given permit year,
which shall commence August 1 and
end July 31 of the following year, then
no person shall be issued a fifth or
subsequent short-term vending permit for the same location in that permit year. As used in this division, a

8
“particular location” shall mean a
property or group of contiguous or
noncontiguous properties, whether or
not under common ownership, which
are under a common street address,
both as to house or building number
and street name.
(g) Permit Issuance and Fee. On
receipt of a completed application
approved by the Director of Building
Housing
and
approved,
if
and
required, by the City Planning Commission or the Landmarks Commission, and on receipt of the applicable
permit fee established by this division, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall issue a permit which shall cover either a period
of seven (7) days or a period of one
year, commencing August 1 and ending July 31 of the following year. The
fee shall be seventy five dollars
($75.00) for a seven-day permit and
three hundred seventy five dollars
($375.00) for a one-year permit.
(h) Display of Permit. The permit
shall be kept on the vending device,
truck, or structure at all times during
which the vendor is engaged in vending, and shall contain the following
information:
(1) the vendor’s name and address;
(2) the address of the private property on which the vendor is authorized to vend;
(3) the name and address of the
owner of the private property;
(4) a description of the vending
device, truck, or temporary structure,
if any, from which vending is authorized including its size; and
(5) the permit number and permit
expiration date.
(i) “Vending Device” Defined. As
used in this section, “vending device”
has the same meaning as in Section
675.01, and shall also include temporary structures, trailers, and other
vehicles, carts, stands, and other
devices from which vending can be
conducted, or which can be used to
display goods.
Section 675.06 Permit: Zones Within
the Central Business District
(a) In addition to the temporary
sidewalk occupancy permits issued
under Chapter 508, the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to issue
permits to vend in zones in the Central Business District established by
the Director in which the holders of
the permits may vend on such days, at
such times of day, and under the conditions that the Director determines.
The zones shall be created by regulation taking into account the following
factors:
(1) pedestrian and vehicular traffic
patterns, including possible congestion during special events and sporting events;
(2) proximity to special events and
sporting events occurring in the Central Business District and at the lakefront;
(3) proximity to retail establishments; and
(4) other factors deemed relevant
by the Director of Capital Projects.
(b) The application for the permit
authorized by division (a) of this section shall be made to the Director of
Capital Projects on forms prescribed
by the Director. The application shall
contain the following:
(1) the vendor’s name, address, and
vendor’s license number;
(2) a description of the vending
device, truck, or temporary structure,
if any, from which the applicant
intends to vend, including its size;
(3) the zone or zones for which a
permit is sought; and

The City Record
(4) a description of the items to be
offered for sale.
(c) On receipt of a completed application and an annual permit fee of
one hundred twenty-five dollars
($125.00) per zone or a daily permit
fee of thirty dollars ($30.00), the
Director of Capital Projects shall
issue the appropriate permit. An
annual permit shall cover the period
commencing August 1 and ending
July 31 of the following year.
(d) The permit shall be kept on the
vending device, truck, or structure at
all times during the time the vendor is
engaged in vending and shall contain
the following information:
(1) the vendor’s name and address;
(2) a statement of the zone or zones
in the Central Business District to
which the vendor is restricted;
(3) a description of the vending
device, truck, or temporary structure,
if any, from which vending is authorized, including its size; and
(4) the permit number and permit
expiration date.
(e) The Director of Capital Projects
may issue rules and regulations to
carry out the purposes of this section.
Section 675.07
Permit;
Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Outside the
Central Business District
(a) The application for the permit
required by division (d) of Section
675.04 shall be made to the Director of
Capital Projects on forms prescribed
by the Director. On receipt of a permit
application, the Director of Capital
Projects shall notify the Council
member in whose ward the proposed
permit location lies that the application has been received. The application shall contain the following:
(1) the vendor’s name, address, and
vendor’s license number;
(2) a sketch and narrative indicating the location for which the permit
application is being made, with sufficient detail to enable the Director of
Capital Projects to verify the placement of the temporary vending device
in accordance with the criteria contained in Section 675.09;
(3) a description of the vending
device, truck, or temporary structure,
if any, from which the applicant
intends to vend, including its size;
and
(4) a copy of an ordinance of Council specifying the location described
in division (a) (2) of this section and
authorizing the vendor to vend from
that location.
(b) On receipt of a completed application and a permit fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), the Director of
Capital Projects shall issue a permit
which shall cover the period beginning August 1 and ending July 31 of
the following year.
(c) The permit shall be kept upon
the vending device, truck, or structure at all times during which the vendor is engaged in vending, and shall
contain the following information:
(1) the vendor’s name and address;
(2) the address or description of the
location that the vendor intends to
vend;
(3) the number and passage date of
the ordinance described in division
(a) (4) of this section;
(4) a description of the vending
device, truck, or temporary structure,
if any, from which vending is authorized including its size; and
(5) the permit number and permit
expiration date.
Section 675.08 Permit: Mobile Vending Outside the Central Business District
(a) The application for the permit
required by division (e) of Section

186

February 16, 2011
675.04 shall be made to the Director of
Capital Projects on forms prescribed
by the Director. On receipt of a permit
application, the Director of Capital
Projects shall notify the Council
member or members in whose ward or
wards the vendor intends to vend that
the application has been received.
The application shall contain the following:
(1) the vendor’s name, address, and
vendor’s license number;
(2) a statement that the vendor
intends to move continuously from
place to place upon those highways,
streets, or sidewalks that are located
outside of the Central Business District. The statement shall specify the
ward or wards in which the vendor
intends to vend;
(3) a copy of the ordinance of Council specifying the ward or wards in
which the vendor is authorized to
vend; and
(4) a description of the vending
device, truck, or temporary structure,
if any, from which the applicant
intends to vend, including its size.
(b) On receipt of a completed application and a permit fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), the Director of
Capital Projects shall issue a permit
which shall cover the period beginning August 1 and ending July 31 of
the following year.
(c) The permit shall be kept upon
the vending device, truck, or structure at all times during which the vendor is engaged in vending and shall
contain the following information:
(1) the vendor’s name and address;
(2) the ward or wards in which the
vendor is authorized to vend;
(3) the number and passage date of
the ordinance described in division
(a) (3) of this section;
(4) a description of the vending
device, truck, or temporary structure,
if any, from which vending is authorized including its size; and
(5) the permit number and permit
expiration date.
Section 675.09
Regulations Governing Vendors
(a) For purposes of this section:
(1) “Merchandise” means goods or
wares, and does not include food or
beverages other than pre-packaged
frozen desserts.
(2) “Street” means street, alley,
highway, roadway, or avenue.
(b) No vendor shall sell or display
merchandise:
(1) to the occupants of vehicles
stopped in traffic;
(2) from any vehicle, structure, or
device that is situated in any portion
of a street which is designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel; or
(3) at a location or in a manner that
hinders or restricts access to a telephone booth, mail box, parking meter,
police or fire call box, traffic control
box, fire hydrant, or sidewalk elevator, or that blocks, obstructs, or
restricts the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles in the lawful use of
the sidewalks or streets.
(c) Unless the Director of Capital
Projects makes a determination to
the contrary, which determination is
reflected in the location specified on a
permit issued in accordance with this
chapter, no vendor shall sell or display merchandise:
(1) at any location where the sidewalk is less than ten (10) feet in
width;
(2) within ten (10) feet of a crosswalk;
(3) within that portion of a sidewalk bounded by the prolongation of
each intersecting abutting property

February 16, 2011
line to the respective curblines or
within ten (10) feet thereof;
(4) within ten (10) feet of any doorway or the prolongation of any doorway width to the curbline; or
(5) within twenty (20) feet of
another permitted location, provided
however, that the distance between
locations permitted pursuant to Section 675.06 shall be in accordance with
the rules and regulations promulgated by the Director of Capital Projects
under division (e) of Section 675.06.
(d) No vendor shall display merchandise or place lines or other
devices for the display of merchandise on any building or on any utility
pole, planter, tree, trash container, or
other sidewalk fixture.
(e) A vendor who has received a
permit to vend upon private property
shall not encroach into any street or
sidewalk in any way.
(f) No vendor shall place any merchandise in or upon any street or sidewalk, and all vendors shall exercise
reasonable care to ensure that their
merchandise, packaging, display
equipment or other paraphernalia
does not create a health or safety hazard to customers, other users of the
sidewalks and streets, or persons on
abutting property.
(g) No vendor shall engage in vending door-to-door on residential property between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and
9:00 a.m.
(h) No vendor shall leave a vending
device unattended at any time. leave
a vending device on a sidewalk
between the hours of midnight and
6:00 a.m., or conduct business on a
sidewalk between those hours.
(i) A vendor who has received a
permit to vend on public property
shall obey any lawful order of a police
officer to remove himself or herself
and his or her vending device entirely
from the sidewalk to avoid congestion or obstruction during an emergency.
(j) A vendor who is required to
move continuously from place to
place shall locate any vending device,
equipment and merchandise adjacent
and parallel to a curb when stopped
for a sale.
(k) No vendor shall make any loud
or unreasonable noise for the purpose
of advertising or drawing attention to
merchandise or for any other purpose.
(l) All vendors shall comply with
all requirements of applicable state
and local law, including, without limitation, the City’s Fire Prevention
Code and State of Ohio Fire Code.
(m) No person shall vend pre-packaged frozen desserts within the City
who has been convicted of or pled
guilty to any of the following criminal offenses:
(1) any offense involving a minor;
(2) any sexually oriented offense,
including, but not limited to, corruption of a minor, sexual imposition,
importuning, voyeurism, public indecency, procuring, soliciting, prostitution, loitering for the purpose of
engaging in prostitution, disseminating material harmful to juveniles,
deception to obtain material harmful
to juveniles, possession of obscene
material involving a minor, possession of sexually oriented material
involving a minor, possession of nudity-oriented material involving a
minor, and displaying matter harmful
to juveniles;
(3) any assault within seven years
after service of sentence after conviction or guilty plea; and
(4) unlawful possession of weapons
within five years after conviction or
guilty plea; and

The City Record
(5) any homicide offense in Ohio
Revised Code Chapter 2903 or any substantially similar homicide offense
under any municipal or state law.
(n) Any applicant for a license or
permit under this Chapter to vend prepackaged frozen desserts shall list on
the application their name, address,
date of birth, and social security number, and shall provide an affidavit
stating that the applicant has not
been convicted of or pled guilty to any
of the criminal offenses listed in subdivision (m). Any employer applying
for a permit to vend pre-packaged
frozen desserts shall list the name,
address, date of birth, and social security number of each employee or person who will be vending pre-packaged frozen desserts.
(o) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall refuse to
grant a license or permit under this
Chapter to vend pre-packaged frozen
desserts or shall revoke a license or
permit under this Chapter to vend prepackaged frozen desserts, for any one
or more of the following reasons:
(1) the applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty to any criminal
offense involving a minor or any
other criminal offense listed in division (m);
(2) the applicant fails to provide
the information required by division
(n);
(3) the applicant makes or made a
false statement in the license or permit application; or
(4) the applicant fails to report a
conviction that occurs during the
license or permit period.
(p) No person shall vend pre-packaged frozen desserts without posting
the permit in a conspicuous location
in each vehicle used to vend pre-packaged frozen desserts.
(q) On every permit to vend prepackaged frozen desserts, the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall list the name of each employee or individual authorized to vend
pre-packaged frozen desserts on
behalf of the applicant.
(r) There shall be no vending of
pre-packaged frozen desserts after
9:00 p.m.
Section 675.10 Revocation or Suspension of License or Permit; Appeals
(a) The Commissioner may at any
time revoke or suspend any license or
permit granted by the Commissioner
under the authority of this chapter for
failure to comply with the terms of
this chapter or with any law, rule or
regulation relating to vendors or the
conduct of their business.
(b) The Director of Capital Projects
may at any time revoke or suspend
any permit granted by said director
under the authority of this chapter for
failure to comply with the terms of
this chapter or with any law, rule or
regulation relating to vendors or
encroachments in the rights-of-way of
the City.
(c) In case of the refusal to issue a
license or permit or the revocation or
suspension of a license or permit by
the Commissioner or by the Director
of Capital Projects, the applicant or
licensee may appeal the Commissioner’s or Director’s action to the Board
of Zoning Appeals, established under
Charter Section 76-6. Notice of such
appeal shall be in writing and shall
be filed with the Board within ten
(10) days from the date of the Commissioner’s or Director’s action. Within ten (10) days after the filing of
such notice, the Board shall proceed
to hear such appeal, at which hearing
all parties interested shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard. The

187

9
Board shall render a decision within
ten (10) days of the conclusion of the
hearing. The Board may sustain, disapprove or modify the Commissioner’s or Director’s action, and the
Board’s decision shall be final.
Section 675.99 Penalty
(a) Whoever violates any of the
provisions of this chapter is guilty of
improper vending, a minor misdemeanor, and shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00). The fine set
forth herein is mandatory and shall
not be suspended by the court in
whole or in part. Each day upon
which a violation occurs or continues
shall constitute a separate offense
and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(b) In addition to any other method
of enforcement provided for in this
chapter, the provisions of division (a)
of this section may be enforced by the
issuance of a citation in compliance
with Rule 4.1 of the Ohio Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
(c) If the offender persists in
improper vending after reasonable
warning or request to desist, improper vending is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
Section 2. That the following existing sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 241.01, 241.02, and 241.03, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 2163-01,
passed May 20, 2002,
Section 241.05, as amended by Ordinance No. 2303-04, passed January 24,
2005,
Sections 241.06, 241.07, 241.32, and
241.99, as enacted by Ordinance No.
2163-01, passed May 20, 2002
Sections 508.01, 508.03, 508.05, and
508.07, as enacted by Ordinance No.
1611-83, passed June 27, 1983,
Section 508.08, as amended by Ordinance No. 1428-92, passed July 22, 1992,
Section 508.09, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1611-83, passed June 27,
1983,
Section 675.01, as amended by Ordinance No. 1158-09, passed October 5,
2009,
Section 675.02, as amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3,
2003,
Section 675.03, as amended by Ordinance No. 1428-92, passed July 22, 1992,
Section 675.04, as amended by Ordinance No. 1158-09, passed October 5,
2009,
Section 675.041, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1612-83, passed June 27,
1983,
Sections 675.05, 675.06, 675.07, and
675.08, as amended by Ordinance No.
2393-02, passed February 3, 2003,
Section 675.09, as amended by Ordinance No. 1203-10, passed November
29, 2010,
Section 675.10, as amended by Ordinance No. 1670-92, passed August 19,
1992, and
Section 675.99, as amended by Ordinance No. 137-A-91, passed June 17,
1991
are repealed.
Section 3. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 241.051, 241.36, 241.37, and 241.38
to read as follows:
Section 241.051 Food Vehicle Permit; Fee
(a)
No business vehicle used
regularly for the transportation or
delivery of food, except a commercial
carrier transporting food incidental
to other deliveries, shall transport or
deliver food in the City without the
owner or leasee first obtaining an

10
annual food vehicle permit for the
vehicle.
(b) For a food vehicle permit the
annual fee shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
(c) Food vehicle permits shall
expire not later than the last day of
February of the next ensuing year
after issuance, and they shall not be
transferable except upon the sale or
disposition of the food vehicle. A permit shall not be transferred more than
once in a licensing period.
(d) The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses shall submit all
applications for a food vehicle permit
to the City of Cleveland Director of
Public Health for approval or disapproval of the application.
Section 241.36 Mobile Food Shops –
Area Restrictions and Regulations
(a) No mobile food shop may operate outside an organized vending
zone in contravention of the regulations provided by Section 241.38 of
this Chapter and other rules and regulations promulgated under Section
241.01.
(b) No mobile food shop may operate inside an organized vending zone
in contravention of the regulations
provided by Section 241.38 and other
rules and regulations promulgated
under Section 241.01, except as such
regulations are modified by the Director of Capital Projects in establishing
the organized vending zone.
Section 241.37 Mobile Food Shops –
Organized Vending Zones
(a) The Director of Capital Projects, in consultation with the Director of Planning, is authorized to
establish organized vending zones,
upon written approval of the council
person representing the ward in
which the organized vending zone
shall be located, wherein the holders
of a food shop license may operate on
such days, at such times of day, and
under the conditions that the Director
determines. The zones shall be created by regulation taking into account
the following factors:
(1) pedestrian and vehicular traffic
patterns, including possible congestion during special events and sporting events;
(2) proximity to special events and
sporting events;
(3) proximity to permanent food
establishments; and
(4) other factors deemed relevant
by the Director of Capital Projects.
(b) The regulations establishing
organized mobile food shop vending
zones shall first be published in The
City Record with the effective date
and may be rescinded in the same
manner.
(c) In establishing organized vending zones, the Director of Capital Projects may provide additional or contrary regulations that may be in variance with those provided for by section 241.38(b) of this chapter.
(d) An established organized vending zone may be dissolved in the same
manner as it is created or by a vote of
Council.
(e) The Director of Capital Projects
may issue rules and regulations to
carry out the purposes of this section.
Such rules and regulations shall be
published in The City Record and
become effective seven (7) days after
publication.
Section 241.38 Mobile Food Shops –
Regulations
(a) No mobile food shop shall sell
food items, display food items, or conduct vending operations:

The City Record
(1) to the occupants of vehicles
stopped in traffic;
(2) from any vehicle, structure, or
device that is situated in any portion
of a street which is designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel;
(3) at a location or in a manner that
hinders or restricts access to a telephone booth, mail box, parking meter,
police or fire call box, traffic control
box, fire hydrant, or sidewalk elevator, or that blocks, obstructs, or
restricts the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles in the lawful use of
the sidewalks or streets;
(4) from any portion of the sidewalk within the Central Business District without a proper permit pursuant to Chapter 508; or
(5) from any vending device that
does not comply with Code 58: Liquefied Petroleum Gas, as promulgated
by the National Fire Protection Association.
(b) Unless the Director of Capital
Projects makes a determination to
the contrary, which determination is
reflected in the scope of a zone established in accordance with this chapter, no vendor shall sell or display
food items:
(1) at any location where the sidewalk is less than ten (10) feet in
width;
(2) within ten (10) feet of a crosswalk;
(3) within that portion of a sidewalk bounded by the prolongation of
each intersecting abutting property
line to the respective curblines or
within ten (10) feet thereof;
(4) within ten (10) feet of any doorway or the prolongation of any doorway width to the curbline;
(5) within ten (10) feet of another
mobile food shop;
(6) within one hundred (100) adjacent linear feet of a food service operation operating from a fixed and permanent location existing at the time
of license issuance or renewal; or
(7) notwithstanding any provision
to the contrary contained in chapter
508, on a sidewalk between the hours
of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(c) No vendor shall:
(1) display food items or place lines
or other devices for the display of
food items on any building or on any
utility pole, planter, tree, trash container, or other sidewalk fixture;
(2) place any food items in or upon
any street or sidewalk;
(3) use liquefied petroleum gas, or
other flammable substances, without
a required permit pursuant to Section
385.18;
(4) leave a vending device unattended at any time;
(5) make any loud or unreasonable
noise for the purpose of advertising or
drawing attention to its food shop
operations or for any other purpose;
or
(6) conduct business without making available a container suitable for
the placement of litter;
(7) throw or deposit any merchandise, packaging, containers, fat,
grease, paper or other litter on any
streets or sidewalk or in any sewer; or
(8) place or affix any advertising
material and signage to any location
other than flat upon the vending
device being used in its operations.
(d) All vendors:
(1) shall obey any lawful order of a
police officer to remove himself or
herself and his or her vending device
entirely from the sidewalk to avoid
congestion or obstruction during an
emergency;
(2) comply with all requirements of
applicable state and local law, including, without limitation, the City’s

188

February 16, 2011
Fire Prevention Code, the State of
Ohio Fire Code, and the City’s Traffic
Code;
(3) selling or offering frozen
desserts shall first be licensed as otherwise required by this Code in addition to the license and/or permits
required by this Chapter;
(4) selling merchandise or non-food
items shall first obtain a license and
permit pursuant to Chapter 675 in
addition to the license and/or permits
required by this Chapter; and
(5) shall exercise reasonable care
to ensure that their operations do not
create a health or safety hazard to
customers, other users of the sidewalks and streets, or persons on abutting property.
(e) No mobile food shop shall operate on private property contrary to
the requirements of this division.
(1) Any mobile food shop operating
on private property must be the owner
of the private property, and maintain
documentation of the operator’s ownership, or if the operator is not the
owner of the private property, documentation, signed by the property
owner, of the operator’s right to operate on the property. Such documentation must notarized and be readily
available and produced upon demand
by any City official.
(2) Except as provided in this division, no mobile food shop shall be
located on private property closer
than ten (10) feet from any public
sidewalk, as measured from the sidewalk to the closest point on the
mobile food shop. The mobile food
shop, however, may be located closer
than ten (10) feet to a public sidewalk
if the vending device is set back at
least twenty (20) feet from the inside
edge of the tree lawn or, if no tree
lawn exists, at least twenty (20) feet
from the outside edge of the curb.
(3) No mobile food shop shall be
located to impede ingress to or egress
from any structure, nor be located
within ten (10) feet of a fire exit or
escape.
(4) A vendor who is operating upon
private property shall not encroach
into any street or sidewalk in any
way.
(5) A mobile food operating on
lands owned by the City must first
obtained written permission from the
Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties or the Department of Port
Control, as applicable. Such use shall
be conditioned upon compliance with
this chapter and additional restrictions that may be imposed by the City.
(f) The Director of Capital Projects
may issue additional rules and regulations to carry out the purposes of
this section. Such rules and regulations shall be published in The City
Record and become effective seven
(7) days after publication.
Section 4. That Chapter 675 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, is renamed to “Street Vendors.”
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Capital Projects, Public Safety, Economic Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Health and Human Services, Public Service, Public Safety,
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Legislation,
Finance.

February 16, 2011
Ord. No. 212-11.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located on East 156th Street to James
A. Frank.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real property, more
fully described below, to James A.
Frank.
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 142-17-007
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and in the State
of Ohio; and known as being Sublot
Nos. 138 and 139 in the Kleinman’s
Miles Height’s Allotment as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 44 of Map,
Page 15 of Cuyahoga County Records
being bounded as describes as follows:
Beginning at a stone with drill hole
monument at the intersection of East
156th street 40' feet wide and Alonzo
Ave. 40' feet wide; thence N 00°00'00"
E 20.00; along the centerline of East
156th Street feet to a point; thence N
90°00'00" E 20.00 feet, to a 5/8" iron
pin set on the Easterly line of East
156th Street and known as the principal place of beginning of lands
intended to be described; thence N
00°00'00" E 35.00 feet, along said
Easterly line to a 5/8-iron pin set;
thence N 90°00'00" E 69.00 feet, along
a line parallel to the Northerly line of
said Alonzo Avenue to a 5/8" iron pin
set; thence N 45°00'00" E 24.04 feet, to
a 5/8" iron pin set; thence N 90°00'00"
E 39.00 feet, along a line parallel with
the Northerly line of said Alonzo
Avenue to a 5/8" iron pin at the Westerly line of Sublot No. 195; thence S
00°00'00" E 52.00 feet, along the Westerly line of Sublot Nos. 195 and 196 to
a 5/8" iron pin set at the Northerly
line of Alonzo Avenue; thence S
90°00'00"W 125.00 feet, along said
Easterly line to the place of beginning containing 0.11897 acres of land
according to a survey made in May
2002 by Bemba K. Jones, Ohio Registered Surveyor #7343 for Bemba K.
Jones & Associates Inc.
The Meridian for all bearings in
this description are assumed and used
to denote angles only.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed

The City Record
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 213-11.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 1055 East 169th Street to
Rhonda S. Mclean.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real property, more
fully described below, to Rhonda S.
Mclean.
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 113-21-030
Situated In the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being Sublot No.
14 in Moreland Allotment of part of
Original Euclid Township Tract No.
15, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 64 of Maps, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Easterly side of East

189

11
169th Street, 154.13 feet deep on the
Northerly line, 154.17 feet deep on the
Southerly line, and 40 feet wide in the
rear, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 214-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 10530 Elmarge Road to
Rayshoun T. Howell.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real property, more
fully described below, to Rayshoun T.
Howell.

12
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 136-24-044
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being Sublot No.
17 in A. Gaehr Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
466 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 42 of Maps, Page 12 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Southerly side of
Elmarge Road, S.E. and extending
back121.96 feet, as appears by said
plat.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance
Ord. No. 215-11.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 4200 Poe Avenue to Carlos
Caraballo and Rosario Caraballo.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real property, more
fully described below, to Carlos Caraballo and Rosario Caraballo.
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 015-11-088
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being Sublot No.
16 in G. H. Taylors Subdivision of part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 55, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 16 of Maps, Page 22 of
Cuyahoga County Records; and being
40 feet front on the Northeasterly side
of Poe Avenue and extending back
115.11 feet on the Northwesterly line,
127.38 feet on the Southeasterly line,
and having a rear line of 41.83 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Directors of Community Development, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
Ord. No. 216-11.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 3198 West 48th Street to
Zuleyka Luciano.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the

190

February 16, 2011
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real property, more
fully described below, to Zuleyka
Luciano.
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 016-13-025
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being Sublot No.
157 in James M. Hoyt’s Subdivision of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot No. 47, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 16 of.
Cuyahoga County Records, and being
40.00 feet front on the Westerly side of
West 48th Street (formerly Hartford
Street) and extending back 125.00 feet
on the Northerly line, 125.00 feet on
the Southerly line and having rear
line of 40 feet, which as also the Easterly line of an alley, 14 feet wide, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.

February 16, 2011
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 218-11.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning
Commission to apply for and accept
one or more grants from Northeast
Ohio Area Coordinating Agency for
the Transportation for Livable Communities Grant Program; authorizing
the Director to enter into one or more
contracts with various entities to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to apply for and accept one or
more grants up to $565,000, from
Northeast Ohio Area Coordinating
Agency to conduct the Transportation
for Livable Communities Program;
that the Director is authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grants; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the application’s cover
pages contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the application’s
cover pages, File No. 218-11-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation and
shall not be changed without additional
legislative
authority,
is
approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission is authorized to enter into one or more contracts or memoranda of understanding, as appropriate, with NOACA and
the following entities to implement
the grant as described in the file: Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation, Famicos Foundation, DetroitShoreway Community Development
Corporation, Mount Pleasant Now
Community Development Corporation, University Circle, Inc., MidTown
Cleveland, Inc., Mount Pleasant Community Zone, and Kent State University Urban Design Collaborative.
Section 4. That the cost of contract
or contracts authorized shall be paid
from the fund or funds which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

The City Record
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 219-11.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Department
of
Natural
Ohio
Resources for the 2011 Community
Development Grant (Drop Off) Program; and authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts with
various agencies and entities to
implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the amount of
$50,000 from the Ohio Department of
Natural Resources, for the 2011 Community Development Grant (Drop
Off) Program, for the purposes in the
summary and according thereto; that
the Director of Public Works is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the summary for the
grant.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 219-11-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
including the obligation of the City of
Cleveland to provide $25,000 in cash
matching funds from Fund No. 01400307-6397, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
the public hearing on this legislation,
is approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
an agreement with various agencies
and entities to implement the program.
Section 4. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized in this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance and from the cash match.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Community Development,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Parks, Properties, and Recreation,
Community and Economic Development, Finance.

13
Ord. No. 220-11.
By Council Members Conwell,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 670A.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2393-02,
passed February 3, 2003, relating to
the registration of alarm system
users.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 670A.03 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 670A.03 Registration of
Alarm System Users; Fee
(a) Each alarm system user shall
register with the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses using
forms designated by the Commissioner for this purpose, and shall provide
the name of the user, the location of
the premises on which the alarm system is in operation, and other information as the Commissioner shall
require.
(b) Each alarm system user on
whose premises an alarm system is in
operation on the effective date of this
section shall initially register within
ninety (90) days of the effective date
of the section. Each alarm system
user on whose premises an alarm system is placed in operation after the
effective date of this section shall initially register not later than the date
on which the system is placed in operation.
(c) After the initial registration
required by division (b) of this section, each alarm system user shall reregister between June 1 and June 30,
inclusive, of each calendar year after
the calendar year in which the initial
registration is made.
(d) Each alarm system user shall
pay a fee of twenty-five dollars
($25.00) for each registration or reregistration required by this section.
(e) No person shall fail to register
or re-register as an alarm system user
as required by this section.
Section 2. That existing Section
670A.03 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2393-02, passed February 3, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.

Ord. No. 222-11.
By Council Members Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. CT 4002 PI 2010-34 with R.W. Clark Company for the former Coast Guard Station roof replacement project, for the
Department of City Planning.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of City Planning is authorized to make the following alterations and modifications in Contract No. CT 4002 PI 2010-34 with R.W. Clark Company, for the former Coast Guard Station roof replacement project, for
the Department of City Planning:

191

The City Record

14

February 16, 2011

Subsidiary Additions
Special inspection of the steel required by OBBC
Additional costs to demolish and dispose of
refuse remaining inside the Quarters Building
Additional glazing for rear Tower windows
Total Subsidiary Additions
Original Contract Amount
Total Subsidiary Additions
REVISED CONTRACT AMOUNT

$1,539.00
$1,202.91
$ 951.00
$3,692.91
$515,225.00
+ 3,692.91
$518,917.91

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the Director of City Planning, countersigned by the Mayor, and
consented to by the surety on the contract, which price to be paid has been agreed upon in writing and signed by the
Director of City Planning and the contractor. This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the original contract in the sum of $3,692.91 to be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 457 and 20 SF 391, Request No. RQS 0110, RL 2011-7.
Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on City Planning, Finance.

Ord. No 223-11.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to Rockwell Property,
LLC, to encroach into the public rightof-way beneath Rockwell Avenue and
East 6th Street by installing, using,
and maintaining a sidewalk vault.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to issue a
permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Rockwell Property, LLC, 1403
East 6th Street Cleveland, Ohio 44114
(“Permittee”), to encroach into the
public right-of-way beneath Rockwell
Avenue and East 6th Street at the following described location for the purpose of installing, using, and maintaining an underground sidewalk
vault:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Original
Two Acre Lots 69 and 70, further
known as being an easement over
part of Lot “A” and sublot 21 in the
John A. Rockwell and Others Allotment as shown by plat recorded in volume 2, page 58 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records, the same being land
conveyed to Rockwell Property LLC
by A.F.N. 201002260177 of Cuyahoga
County Records (PPN 101-05-018);
Beginning in the northwesterly line
of Rockwell Avenue (66 feet wide), at
the most southerly corner of land conveyed to Rockwell Land Management
Company by A.F.N. 200612280153 of
Cuyahoga County Records (PPN 10105-017);
COURSE 1
Thence South 33°58'50" East, along
the southeasterly extension of the
southwesterly line of said Rockwell
Land Management Company property, 8.12 feet;
COURSE 2
Thence South
130.76 feet;

55°41'23"

West,

COURSE 3
Thence North
137.89 feet;

33°59'41"

West,

COURSE 4
Thence South 56°00'19" West, 9.42
feet;

COURSE 5
Thence North 33°59'41" West, 20.33
feet;
COURSE 6
Thence North 56°00'19" East, 9.42
feet;
COURSE 7
Thence North 33°59'41" West, 17.12
feet;
COURSE 8
Thence North 55°41'23" East, 130.76
feet to the northwesterly extension of
the southwesterly line of said Rockwell Land Management Company
property;
COURSE 9
Thence South 33°58'50" East, along
the northwesterly extension of the
southwesterly line of said Rockwell
Land Management Company property, 1.12 feet to the most westerly corner thereof, the same being in the
southeasterly sideline of Theresa
Court (16.5 feet wide);
COURSE 10
Thence South 55°43'25" West,
along the southeasterly sideline of
said Theresa Court, 116.10 feet to the
northeasterly sideline of East 6th
Street (99 feet wide);
COURSE 11
Thence South 33°58'38" East, along
the northeasterly sideline of said
East 6th Street, 166.11 feet to the
northwesterly sideline of said Rockwell Avenue;
COURSE 12
Thence North 55°43'25" East, along
the northwesterly sideline of said
Rockwell Avenue, 116.11 feet to the
PLACE OF BEGINNING, and containing 0.0881 acres of land (3,837 square
feet), as calculated and described in
November, 2010, by Michael P. Spellacy, P.S. 8169 of Polaris Engineering
and Surveying, Inc.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure permitted by this ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications approved by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all
other required permits, including but

192

not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
Permittee has properly indemnified
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 225-11.
By Council Members Conwell, Brancatelli, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at 11905 Superior Avenue to
Market Redevelopment, LLC and/or
Market Redevelopment II, LLC, or its
designee, for purposes of redeveloping the former Tops Supermarket
property; and authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter
into a project agreement for the redevelopment.
Whereas, the Director of Economic
Development has requested the sale
of the City-owned property to Market
Redevelopment, LLC and/or Market
Redevelopment
II,
LLC,
or
its
designee (the “Redeveloper”) no
longer needed for public use and
located at 11905 Superior Avenue for
purposes of redeveloping the former
Tops Supermarket property; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

February 16, 2011
Section 1. That, under the provisions of Section 183.021, and notwithstanding any other provisions of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined
that the following described property
is no longer needed for public use:
6.4586 Acre Parcel
Northwest Corner of
Lakeview Road and
Superior Avenue
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Original
100 Acre Lot Nos. 379 and 380, further
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southwesterly
line of Lakeview Road, 60.00 feet
wide, at its intersection with the
Northerly line of Superior Avenue, 60
feet wide;
Thence South 89°18'20" West,
along said Northerly line of Superior
Avenue, 218.54 feet to an iron pin set
and the principal place of beginning;
Thence continuing South 89°18'20"
West, along said Northerly line of
Superior Avenue, 283.02 feet
to a
point therein, said point also being
the Southeast corner of Sublot No. 58
in E.Q. Potter Subdivision as recorded
in Volume 49, Page 7 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records;
Thence North 00°41'40" West,
along the Easterly line of said Sublot
58, 115.56 feet to the Northeast corner
thereof;
Thence North 40°53'51" West,
along the Southeasterly line of the
aforesaid E.Q. Potter Subdivision,
624.73 feet to an iron pin set therein;
Thence North 49°06'09" East, 300.86
feet to an iron pin set at an angle
point;
Thence North 83°06'09" East, 49.05
feet to an iron pin set in the aforementioned Southwesterly line of
Lakeview Road;
Thence South 33°40'08" East, along
said Southwesterly line of Lakeview
Road, 323.14 feet to an iron pin set at
an angle point;
Thence South 43°56'16" East, continuing along said Southwesterly line
of Lakeview Road, 544.71 feet to an
iron pin set therein;
Thence South 47°57'52" West,
188.22 feet to the principal place of
beginning and containing 6.4586
acres, be the same more or less but
subject to all legal highways and
easements of record and being according to a survey dated October 16, 1987
made by Leslie P. Kent, Professional
Surveyor No. 6627 of Seymour D.
Weiss and Associates, Inc., Consulting Engineers and surveyors.
Section 2. That by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is authorized to sell the abovedescribed property to the Redeveloper
at a price not less than fair market
value as determined by the Board of
Control, taking into account all
restrictions, reversionary interests
and similar encumbrances placed by
the City of Cleveland in the deed of
conveyance.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain necessary provisions, including
restrictive reversionary interests as
may be specified by the Board of Control or Director of Law, which shall
protect the parties as their respective
interests require and shall specifically contain a provision against the

The City Record
erection of any advertising signs or
billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into any agreements or sign any
documents necessary to effectuate
this transaction and all agreements
and documents must be prepared and
approved by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into a Project Agreement with
the Redeveloper to memorialize the
conveyance and terms of the conveyance authorized under this ordinance.
Section 6. That any payments
received through the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance will be
deposited into Fund No. 17 SF 965.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 226-11.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 69366 with Physio-Control,
Inc. to maintain and repair automated
external defibrillators at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and
Burke Lakefront Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 445-08, passed May 5,
2008, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. 69366 with
Physio-Control, Inc. to maintain and
repair automated external defibrillators at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront
Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 445-08
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
first option to renew Contract No.
69366 for an additional year at a cost
not to exceed $8,325.00 with PhysioControl, Inc. to maintain and repair
automated external defibrillators at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport.
This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required
by Ordinance No. 455-08 to exercise
this option. RQS 3001, RL 2011-11.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.

193

15
Ord. No. 227-11.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 69429 with South Shore Cable
Construction, Inc. to provide for the
use and occupancy of certain Cityowned property at 6400 Kolthoff
Road, Brook Park.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 588-09, passed June 8,
2009, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. 69429 with
South Shore Cable Construction, Inc.
to provide for the use and occupancy
of certain City-owned property at 6400
Kolthoff Road, Brook Park; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 588-09
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, for the use of the leased
premises, South Shore Cable Construction, Inc. shall pay the City an
annual fee of $71,450.04, payable in
monthly installments of $5,954.17; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
first option to renew Contract No.
69429 for an additional year with
South Shore Cable Construction, Inc.
for the use and occupancy of certain
City-owned property at 6400 Kolthoff
Road, Brook Park. This ordinance
constitutes the additional legislative
authority required by Ordinance No.
588-09 to exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 224-11.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate Radio Lane N.E.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Radio Lane N.E., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate the following described real property:
All that portion of Radio Lane N.E.
(66.0 feet wide) (formerly East 27th
Street) extending southerly from St.
Clair Avenue N.E. (99.0 feet wide)
about 162.0 feet to the easterly prolongation of the northerly line of sublot
number 91 in the Perry Payne Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat
in volume 2 of maps page 29 of Cuyahoga County Records and all that portion Radio Lane N.E. (12.0 feet wide)
(formerly Packard Court) extending
easterly from the southerly prolonga-

The City Record

16
tion of the westerly line of sublot
number 94 in aforesaid Perry Payne
Subdivision 99.0 feet to the northerly
prolongation of sublot number 91 as
aforesaid.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 204-11.
Council
Members
Zone,
By
Polensek, Miller, Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland
to the State of Ohio for the rehabilitation and replacement of concrete
retaining walls at Norfolk and Southern Railroad Bridge over Madison
Avenue and CSX Railroad Bridge
over Nottingham Road; and authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
enter into contracts with the State of
Ohio.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 31909, passed March 16, 2009, this Council
authorized the City of Cleveland to
cooperate with the Director of Transportation for the rehabilitation and
replacement of concrete retaining
walls at Norfolk and Southern Railroad Bridge over Madison Avenue and
CSX Railroad Bridge over Nottingham Road, including drainage system
installation,
curb
and
sidewalk
replacement, and minor roadway
work (the “Improvement”); and
Whereas, the City shall cooperate
with the Ohio Director of Transportation in the above described project by
assuming and bearing one hundred
percent (100%) of the entire cost of
the Improvement, less the amount of
Federal-aid funds set aside by the
Director
of
Transportation
and
NOACA for the financing of this
Improvement from funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
U.S. Department of Transportation;
and
Whereas, the share of the City’s
cost of the Improvement is now estimated to be $683,100.00 but may be
adjusted when the percentages of
actual costs are determined; and
Whereas, the Ohio Director of
Transportation has approved the legislation proposing cooperating and
has caused to be made plans and specifications and an estimate of costs
and expense for the Improvement and
has transmitted copies of the same to
this legislative authority; and
Whereas, the City desires the Ohio
Director of Transportation to proceed
with the Improvement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
requests the Ohio Director of Transportation
to
proceed
with
the
Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is empowered on behalf

of the City to enter into contracts with
the Ohio Department of Transportation’s (“ODOT’s”) pre-qualified consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Project and to enter
into contracts with the Director of
Transportation necessary to complete
the Improvement. Upon the request of
ODOT, the Director of Capital Projects is also empowered to assign all
rights, title, and interests of the City
to ODOT arising from any agreement
with its consultant in order to allow
ODOT to direct additional or corrective work, recover damages due to
errors or omissions, and to exercise
all other contractual rights and remedies afforded by law or equity.
Section 3. That, under Ordinance
No. 319-09, passed March 16, 2009, this
Council authorized payment to the
State of the City’s share of the
Improvement, payable from subordinate lien income tax bonds of the City
of Cleveland authorized by Ordinance
No. 459-10, and from Fund Nos. 20 SF
380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF 500, 20
SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528,
20 SF 534, Request No. RQS 4004, RL
2011-25.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized and directed to transmit
to the State three (3) certified copies
of this ordinance immediately on its
taking effect, and it shall become the
for
proceeding
with
the
basis
Improvement.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 206-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with the
United States Navy, or its designee, to
receive and display the bell, or other
memorabilia, of the United States
naval warship, the USS Cleveland, following decommissioning on or about
September 30, 2011, for a period of five
years, with one five-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Public Safety.
Whereas, the USS Cleveland (LPD7) was placed in commission on April
21, 1967, at Norfolk, Virginia; and
Whereas, after commissioning, the
USS Cleveland changed its homeport
to San Diego, California, became a
member
of
the
Pacific
Fleet’s
Amphibious force, and performed a
wide variety of missions in both the
Eastern and Western Pacific; and
Whereas, the USS Cleveland has
had a proud and honorable 35-year
history beginning in 1967, where she
first saw action during the TET
Offensive and later assisted in the
mine-clearing efforts of Haiphong
Harbor and Operation End Sweep following the Vietnam War cease fire;
and
Whereas, hallmarking her diversity and professionalism, from November 1988 through 2000, the USS Cleveland was assigned duties as the Third
Fleet flagship, assisted with the
Exxon Valdez disaster, deployed to
Operation Desert Shield and Opera-

194

February 16, 2011
tion Desert Storm, supported law
enforcement operations in Central
America, became the first LPD to
embark an SH-60 Seahawk helicopter,
played a key role in the largest maritime cocaine seizure to date involving the “Sea Chariot”, participated in
United Nations relief efforts in Rwanda, participated in the relocation of
U.S.
Liaison
office
from
the
Mogadishu, Somalia, assisted in the
North Persian Gulf with Operation
Vigilant Warrior, and participated in
the recovery and salvage efforts of
Alaska Airlines Flight 261; and
Whereas, in her 35 years of service,
the USS Cleveland has received two
Combat Action Ribbons, the Joint
Meritorious Unit Award, the Navy
Unit Commendation, three Meritorious Unit Commendations, eight Navy
Excellence Ribbons, three Armed
Forces Expeditionary Medals, twenty-three Vietnam Service Medals, the
Southwest Asia Service Medal, the
Humanitarian Service Medal, the
Coast Guard Unit Commendation with
Operational Distinguishing Device,
and three Vietnam Gallantry Cross
Unit Citations; and
Whereas, the USS Cleveland will
continue on active duty until decommissioned on or about September 30,
2011; and
Whereas, part of the ship’s inventory is the bronze bell which once may
have been onboard an earlier USS
Cleveland warship, the USS Cleveland
(CL-55, 1942 to 1960), and quite possibly the first USS Cleveland (Cruiser
19, later PG-33 and CL-21, 1903 to
1030); and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, would like to have the bell designated to our City so that we may
display it, or other memorabilia from
the USS Cleveland, in a prominent and
secure location to be viewed by our
citizens and visitors to honor and celebrate the proud history of the USS
Cleveland; and
Whereas, the somber decommissioning of the USS Cleveland may
mark the end of a line of United States
ships named Cleveland, and it would
be fitting and appropriate that the
bell, or other memorabilia, be entrusted to the citizens of the City of Cleveland, Ohio, when, and if, a new USS
Cleveland is commissioned; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
an agreement with the United States
Navy, or its designee, to receive and
display the bell, or other memorabilia,
of the United States naval warship,
the USS Cleveland (LPD-7), following
decommissioning on or about September 30, 2011, for a period of five years,
with one five-year option to renew,
exercisable by the Director of Public
Safety. If the Director of Public Safety exercises the option to renew, then
he or she shall notify this Council of
that action.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

February 16, 2011
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 208-11.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
an agreement with Sean Balewski for
professional services to assist with
legislative and various Council matters for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into an agreement with Sean Balewski for professional services to assist with legislative and various Council matters for
Cleveland City Council. This agreement shall be entered into as of February 22, 2011 and shall terminate
May 6, 2011. The agreement shall be
certified for $6,000.00 from fund number 01, subfund 001, account 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 229-11.
By Council Members Westbrook
and Zone.
An emergency ordinance approving
the issuance of a permit for the Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler, on April 23,
2011, sponsored by Hermes Sports &
Events Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler, sponsored by Hermes Sports & Events, Inc.
on April 23, 2011, Start: Edgewater
Park, exit park west up bike path to
West Blvd., south on West Blvd. to
Lake, Lake west to West 117th then
into the City of Lakewood, returning
from Lakewood east on Lake to
Detroit, east on Detroit to West 76th,
north on West 76th to Father Caruso
Drive, east on Father Caruso to tunnel to Edgewater park and finish, provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the

The City Record
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 205-11.
By Council Member Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of Lakeside Avenue N.E.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Lakeside Avenue, as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
1.
That
this
Council
Section
declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Partial Vacation 1
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being part of Lakeside
Avenue N.E. (99 feet wide) and being
further known as all that space of the
Northerly 15.43 feet that lies between
a lower horizontal plane, said plane
being also beneath the bottom of secondary utility trench of the existing
lower exhibit hall at elevation 605.50
feet above sea level (NAVD 29) and
an upper horizontal plane, said plane
being also the top of slab of the existing lower exhibit hall at elevation
643.30 feet above sea level (NAVD 29),
the Center 63.00 feet that lies between
a lower horizontal plane, said plane
being also beneath the bottom of mat
foundation of the existing lower
exhibit hall at elevation 608.50 feet
above sea level (NAVD 29) and an
upper horizontal plane, said plane
being also the ceiling of the existing
lower exhibit hall at elevation 636.00
feet above sea level (NAVD 29) and
the Southerly 20.57 feet that lies
between a lower horizontal plane,
said plane being also beneath the bottom of mat foundation of the existing
lower exhibit hall at elevation 608.50
feet above sea level (NAVD 29) and
an upper horizontal plane, said plane
being also the top of slab of the proposed lower exhibit hall at elevation
644.00 feet tapering to 645.00 feet
above sea level (NAVD 29) based on
National Geodetic Survey Datum, the
lateral limits being bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at a stone monument
found at the intersection of the center
line of Lakeside Avenue N.E. (99 feet
wide) with the center line of Ontario
Street (99 feet wide); thence North
55°52'41" East, along said center line
of Lakeside Avenue N.E., a distance
of 322.70 feet to a surface elevation of
645.81 feet; thence descending vertically, along the locus of a point, a distance of 9.81 feet to a point in the
upper horizontal plane of the Center
section at elevation 636.00 feet and
the principal place of beginning of
the land herein described;

195

17
Course 1
Thence North 34°07'19" West, a distance of 49.50 feet to the Northwesterly right of way line of said Lakeside
Avenue N.E.;
Course 2
Thence North 55°52'41" East, along
said Northwesterly right of way line
of Lakeside Avenue N.E., a distance
of 489.70 feet;
Course 3
Thence South 34°07'19" East, a distance of 99.00 feet to the Southeasterly right of way line of said Lakeside
Avenue N.E.;
Course 4
Thence South 55°52'41" West,
along said Southeasterly right of way
line of Lakeside Avenue N.E., a distance of 88.99 feet;
Course 5 Thence
North
34°07'19"
West, a distance of 17.00 feet;
Course 6
Thence South 55°52'41" West, parallel with said Southeasterly right of
way line of Lakeside Avenue N.E., a
distance of 267.00 feet;
Course 7
Thence South 34°07'19" East, a distance of 17.00 feet to said Southeasterly right of way line of Lakeside
Avenue N.E.;
Course 8
Thence South 55°52'41" West,
along said Southeasterly right of way
line of Lakeside Avenue N.E., a distance of 133.71 feet;
Course 9
Thence North 34°07'19" West, a distance of 49.50 feet to the principal
place of beginning and containing
43,941 Square Feet of land according
to a survey made by Thomas J. Neff,
Jr. Registered Surveyor No. 7065-Ohio
in November of 2010.
Be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways and easements of record
Partial Vacation 2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being part of Lakeside
Avenue N.E. (99 feet wide) and is further bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a stone monument
found at the intersection of the center
line of Lakeside Avenue N.E. (99 feet
wide) with the center line of Ontario
Street (99 feet wide). Thence North
55°52'41" East, along said center line
of Lakeside Avenue N.E., a distance
of 49.50 feet. Thence South 34°03'06"
East, a distance of 49.50 feet to the
intersection of the Southeasterly
right of way line of said Lakeside
Avenue N.E. with the Northeasterly
right of way line of said Ontario
Street. Thence North 55°52'41" East,
along said Southeasterly right of way
line of Lakeside Avenue N.E., a distance of 406.97 feet to the principal
place of beginning of the land herein
described;
Course 1
Thence North 34°07'19" West, a distance of 17.00 feet;
Course 2
Thence North 55°52'41" East, parallel with said Southeasterly right of
way line of Lakeside Avenue N.E., a
distance of 267.00 feet;
Course 3
Thence South 34°07'19" East, a distance of 17.00 feet to said Southeaster-

18
ly right of way line of Lakeside
Avenue N.E.;
Course 4
Thence South 55°52'41" West,
along said Southeasterly right of way
line of Lakeside Avenue N.E., a distance of 267.00 feet to the principal
place of beginning and containing
0.1042 Acres (4,539 Square Feet) of
land according to a survey made by
Thomas J. Neff, Jr. Registered Surveyor No. 7065-Ohio in November of
2010.
Be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways and easements of record.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 209-11.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Dow and Cimperman.
An emergency resolution urging
Governor John Kasich and the Ohio
General Assembly to amend Section
2743.60 of the Revised Code (Ohio Victims Compensation Fund) to allow a
claimant to receive an award of reparations regardless of whether the
innocent victim or the innocent
claimant was convicted of a felony
offense within 10 years before the
crime.
Whereas, the Ohio Revised Code
allows for a victim of “criminally
injurious conduct” or the victim’s family to receive reparations, or compensatory payments for certain expenses
that are resultant of the crime; and
Whereas, the Revised Code further
allows for denial of a compensation
claim if the innocent victim of the
criminal misconduct, or the innocent
member of the victim’s family making the claim, has been convicted of a
felony offense within the 10 years previous to the crime for which compensation is sought; and
Whereas, this Council believes that
this discriminates against ex-offenders who have turned, or are attempting to turn, their lives around; and
Whereas, the Governor and the
Ohio General Assembly are asked to
amend this law so that compensation
is distributed fairly to all victims,
regardless of whether they have committed past crimes; and
Whereas, the recent denial by the
Ohio Victims Compensation Fund of
compensation to families representing victims who were ex-offenders
and who were killed on Imperial
Avenue (aka Imperial Avenue murders) was especially unfair and insensitive; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
Governor John Kasich and the Ohio
General Assembly to amend Section

The City Record

February 16, 2011

2743.60 of the Revised Code (Ohio Victims Compensation Fund) to allow a
claimant to receive an award of reparations regardless of whether the
innocent victim or the innocent
claimant was convicted of a felony
offense within 10 years before the
crime.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to Governor John
Kasich and all members of the Ohio
General Assembly.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Adopted. Yeas 18. Nays 1.
Those voting yea: Council Members
Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins,
Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane,
Kelley, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Reed,
Westbrook, Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Member
Polensek.

Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
Governor Kasich and the Ohio General Assembly to pass a budget that protects funding health, education,
human services and other critical
needs in the Ohio State 2012-2013 biennium budget through a balanced
approach of long term funding and
revenue increases.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to the Ohio General
Assembly, the Speaker of the Ohio
House of Representatives, the Ohio
Senate President, all Cleveland-area
General Assembly members, and Governor Kasich.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

Res. No. 211-11.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Westbrook.
An emergency resolution urging
Governor Kasich and the Ohio General Assembly to pass a budget that protects funding health, education,
human services and other critical
needs in the Ohio State 2012-2013 biennium budget through a balanced
approach of long term funding and
revenue increases.
Whereas, as a result of the tax cuts
begun in 2005 and a weak Ohio economy, Ohio is currently facing at least
an eight billion dollar deficit as the
Governor and General Assembly
begin to consider and approve a biennium budget for fiscal years 20122013; and
Whereas, without revenue increases, this means that one out of every
six dollars that has previously been
appropriated for Ohio’s needs will
have to be cut; and
Whereas, such cuts will detrimentally affect Cleveland and Clevelanders, including anticipated cuts to
public education, higher education,
the local government fund, child care,
elderly services, health care, mental
health services, public transportation, library services, public safety,
and other critical needs; and
Whereas, in this economic climate
with Ohio having a 9.6% unemployment rate, and millions of others
struggling to make it day to day, we
cannot afford to decrease and eliminate services that will reduce and
diminish the opportunities for Ohio
citizens to move forward productively
with their lives; and
Whereas, to protect critical services, potential areas to be examined
for revenue enhancements include
closing the billions of dollars in tax
loopholes, reinstatement of a 7.5%
income-tax rate for those making
over $201,800, and the strengthening
of corporate taxes; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,

Res. No. 217-11.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 18414-16
St. Clair Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 1068-10, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to DPG
Lounge, LLC, 18414-17 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110 by Resolution No. 1068-10 adopted by the
Council on August 18, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to DPG Lounge,
LLC, 18414-16 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
2296200 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 106810, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

196

February 16, 2011
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 128-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$750,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to improve municipal cemetery
facilities, buildings, structures and
grounds and authorizing related matters.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance, when amended,
as follows:
1. In the second whereas clause,
line 3, after “20 years” insert “, as
evidenced by the Certificate contained in File No. 128-11-A”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 129-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$2,095,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to improve municipal parks and
recreation facilities and authorizing
related matters.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance, when amended,
as follows:
1. In the second whereas clause,
line 3, after “26 years” insert “, as
evidenced by the Certificate contained in File No. 129-11-A”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 130-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$15,155,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve the municipal
street system and related facilities
and authorizing related matters.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance, when amended,
as follows:
1. In the second whereas clause,
line 3, after “18 years” insert “, as
evidenced by the Certificate contained in File No. 130-11-A”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 134-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the

The City Record
State of Ohio Emergency Management Agency, or a designated entity,
for the 2010 Urban Area Security Initiative Program; authorizing one or
more requirement and standard contracts for the purchase of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services;
authorizing one or more agreements
with governmental entities; and to
employ one or more professional consultants to implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 136-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$14,230,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve buildings and
structures housing and providing for
the discharge of governmental functions and services otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and welfare and authorizing related matters.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance, when amended,
as follows:
1. In the second whereas clause,
line 3, after “18 years” insert “, as
evidenced by the Certificate contained in File No. 136-11-A”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 185-11.
By Council Members Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 77009, passed June 8, 2009, relating to
applying for and accepting a grant
from Living Cities for the Reimagining and Re-using Vacant Land in
Cleveland Program and authorizing
implementing contracts; to supplement the ordinance by adding new
Section 4, and renumbering existing
Sections 4 and 5 to new Sections 5 and
6.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Relieved of City Planning
Committee; Passage recommended by
Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:15 p.m. to meet on Monday, February 28, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the
Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

197

19
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

February 9, 2011
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, February 9,
2011, at 10:35 a.m. with Director Triozzi presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Withers, R. Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Butler, H. Smith, Directors Rush,
Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting Director Thornton and Director
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Fumich.
Others: James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Walker-Minor,
Interim
Natoya
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 46-11.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of JCI Jones Chemicals, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of sodium
hypochlorite solution, items 1A and
1B, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years starting upon
the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods or services, received
on November 18, 2010 under the
authority of Section 129.24 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$813,200.00 (Net 30 or 2% Net 10), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which contract shall provide for an initial
order, the cost of which shall be certified to the contract in an amount
not less than $41,800.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Cox, Acting Directors Butler, H. Smith, Directors Rush, Interim Director Walker-Minor, Acting
Director
Thornton
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas and Fumich.
Resolution No. 47-11.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by Town Center Construction, LLC, under City Contract
No. PI201000000007 for the public
improvement of rehabilitating the
second floor office area in the Pas-

The City Record

20
senger Terminal Building at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
including upgrading of all mechanical and electrical equipment and
installations, authorized by Ordinance No. 359-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
May 2, 2005 and Board of Control
Resolution No. 395-10, adopted September 15, 2010, is approved.
Subcontractor

CSB/MBE/FBE%
Amount

Lorain Glass Co., Inc.
11.85% Non CSB/MBE/FBE
$429,894.00
Frank Novak & Sons, Inc.
0.52% Non CSB/MBE/FBE
$ 18,950.00
B & T Builders
Non CSB/MBE/FBE
To be determined
Be it further resolved that the
approval of the employment of the
following subcontractor by Town
Center Construction, LLC, under
City Contract No. PI201000000007 for
the public improvement of rehabilitating the second floor office area
in the Passenger Terminal Building
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, including upgrading of all
mechanical and electrical equipment
and installations for the Department
of Port Control, authorized by Ordinance No. 359-05, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
May 2, 2005, and Board of Control
Resolution No. 395-10, adopted September 15, 2010, is rescinded.
Subcontractor

CSB/MBE/FBE %
Amount

Harmon, Inc.
14.27% Non CSB/MBE/FBE
$517,814.00
Be it further resolved that the
amounts attributed to the subcontractors approved in Board of Control Resolution No. 395-10, adopted
by this Board on September 15, 2010,
are amended as follows:
Subcontractor

CSB/MBE/FBE %
Amount

E.B.P., Inc. d/b/a Epic Steel Co.
3.35% MBE/CSB
$121,800.00
Bidar Construction Company
1.24% MBE/CSB
$ 45,206.00
Warren Roofing & Insulating
2.70% Non CSB/MBE/FBE
$ 98,200.00
Roth Brothers, Inc.
16.44% Non CSB/MBE/FBE
$596,600.00
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
Cox, Acting Directors Butler, H.
Smith,
Directors
Rush,
Interim
Director
Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Thornton
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, R. Smith and Fumich.
Resolution No. 48-11.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Hans’ Truck and Trailer

Repair, Inc. dba Hans’ Freightliner
of Cleveland, for an estimated quantity of nine cab and chassis with
automated refuse bodies, and related equipment, all items, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Works, for the
period of one year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on December 10, 2010, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 59108, passed by Cleveland City Council on July 2, 2008, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1849-08, passed by
Cleveland City Council on January
26, 2009, and Ordinance No. 1620-09,
passed by Cleveland City Council on
November 23, 2009, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $2,167,092.00 (Net),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Works is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which contract shall provide for an initial
order, the cost of which shall be certified to the contract in the amount
not less than $2,167,092.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
Cox, Acting Directors Butler, H.
Smith,
Directors
Rush,
Interim
Director
Walker-Minor,
Acting
Thornton
and
Director
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, R. Smith and Fumich.
Resolution No. 49-11.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Mansfield Oil Company of
Gainesville, Inc. for an estimated
quantity of diesel fuel bid items 1,
2, and 4, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Works, for a period of two
years beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
December 9, 2010, under the authority of Section 131.65 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$4,001,086.20 (Net), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Works is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which contract shall provide for an initial order, the cost of
which shall be certified to the contract in an amount not less than
$205,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
Cox, Acting Directors Butler, H.
Smith,
Directors
Rush,
Interim
Director
Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Thornton
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, R. Smith and Fumich.

198

February 16, 2011
Resolution No. 50-11.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Great Lakes Petroleum
Company for an estimated quantity
of diesel fuel bid items 3, 5, 6, and
7, for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Works, for a period of two years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
December 9, 2010, under the authority of Section 131.65 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $892,321.00
(Net), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Works is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in the
amount not less than $45,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
Cox, Acting Directors Butler, H.
Smith,
Directors
Rush,
Interim
Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Director
Thornton
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, R. Smith and Fumich.
Resolution No. 51-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 275-09, passed March
30, 2009, by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized, by and at the direction of the
Board of Control, to convey the real
property located at 18900 Fairville
Avenue and also known as Permanent Parcel Number 026-26-052, no
longer needed for public use, to
Kamms Corners Development Corporation or its designee; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
275-09, passed March 30, 2009, by the
Council of the City of Cleveland, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is directed to convey Permanent Parcel Number 026-26-052, the
real property as described in Ordinance No. 275-09, no longer needed
for public use, to Kamms Corners
Development
Corporation
or
its
designee.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor of the City of Cleveland is
requested to execute and deliver the
official deed of the City of Cleveland which document shall contain
such additional terms and conditions
as the Director of Law shall deem
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
Cox, Acting Directors Butler, H.
Smith,
Directors
Rush,
Interim
Director
Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Thornton
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, R. Smith and Fumich.

The City Record

February 16, 2011
Resolution No. 52-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance
No.
1558-08,
passed
November 10, 2008, by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized, by and at the direction
of the Board of Control, to convey
the real property located at 7411
Ottawa Avenue and also known as
Permanent Parcel Number 133-19-061,
no longer needed for public use, to
Slavic Village Development or its
designee; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1558-08, passed November 10, 2008, by
the Council of the City of Cleveland,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is directed to convey Permanent Parcel Number 133-19-061,
the real property as described in
Ordinance No. 1558-08, no longer
needed for public use, to Slavic Village Development or its designee.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor of the City of Cleveland is
requested to execute and deliver the
official deed of the City of Cleveland which document shall contain
such additional terms and conditions
as the Director of Law shall deem
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
Cox, Acting Directors Butler, H.
Directors
Rush,
Interim
Smith,
Director
Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Thornton
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, R. Smith and Fumich.
Resolution No. 53-11.
By Interim Director Walker-Minor.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
186-11 passed by Cleveland City
Council on February 7, 2011, Medical
Mutual of Ohio, Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan of Ohio, Cigna Dental
of Ohio, Health Action Council/CVS
Caremark, Metropolitan Life Insurance, EyeMed, and Ohio AFSCME
are selected from a list of firms
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Personnel and Human Resources as the
firms to be employed by separate
contracts to supplement the regularly employed staff of the Department
of
Personnel
and
Human
Resources to perform the professional services necessary to provide
group medical insurance, prescription and dental insurance coverage,
vision and life insurance coverage,
medical
reimbursement
accounts,
dependent care accounts, and premium pass-through benefits coverage for City of Cleveland employees
effective April 1, 2011 for a term of
one (1) year, based on the proposals and in the following stated
amounts
1. Medical Mutual of Ohio, based
on its proposal dated October 12,
2010, for an estimated amount of $58
million.
2. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan
of Ohio, based on its proposal dated
October 12, 2010, for an estimated
amount of $18.5 million.
3. Cigna Dental of Ohio, based on
its proposal dated October 12, 2010,
for an estimated amount of $4.7 million.
4.
Health
Action
Council/CVS
Caremark based on its proposal
dated October 12, 2010, for an estimated amount of $4.5 million.

21

5. Metropolitan Life Insurance
based on its proposal dated January
20, 2010, for a fee of $3.75 per covered employee.
6. EyeMed based on its proposal
dated October 12, 2010, at an estimated amount of $375 thousand.
7. Ohio AFSCME based on its proposal dated October 12, 2010, for a
fee of $6.75 per covered employee.
Be it further resolved that each
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide for
the furnishing of professional services as described in the respective
proposal, and shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
Cox, Acting Directors Butler, H.
Smith,
Directors
Rush,
Interim
Walker-Minor,
Acting
Director
Director
Thornton
and
Director
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Dumas, R. Smith and Fumich.

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide resiAcceptable
categories
dency.
include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES

Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.

____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2011
2/18/2011 — 2/24/2011
Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.

Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 5
BUILDING
STATIONARY
NEER (OPEN)

ENGI-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an OPEN examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY

Exam
Type

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.14 - $19.66 per hour.

5

EE

Building
Stationary
Engineer

Open

FILING OF APPLICATION

6

EE

Buyer

Open

Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commis-

199

The City Record

22
sion, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION –APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON,
FRIDAY,
FEBRUARY
18,
2011
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
FEBRUARY 24, 2011.

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011.

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
ALL
INFORMATION
CONAND
TAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, maintains boiler
room and engine room equipment in a
building.
Maintains
and
public
repairs mechanical and other equipment. Operates power plant and
engine room equipment in a public
building. Performs related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Two years of full time paid
experience in building maintenance
as a
Third Class Stationary Engineer is
required. A valid State of Ohio third
class Stationary engineer’s License is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required. A valid Universal
Refrigeration
License
is
required.
Should have basic computer skills.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, when an applicant is disqualified
from taking an examination on the
basis of age, education or failure to
meet
other
minimum
entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination.

NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 6
BUYER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $47,054.71 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK – UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON
FRIDAY,
FEBRUARY
18,
2011
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
FEBRUARY 24, 2011.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2011.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION

February 16, 2011
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in Business, Marketing, or related field from
an accredited four (4) year college or
university is required. Two (2) years
of full time paid purchasing experience is required. (Substitution: Two
(2) years of experience may substitute for each year of college education lacking.) Must have on-line procurement experience and be proficient in computers and computer software applications, including but not
limited to, Microsoft Office Suite.
Must be highly skilled in using the
Internet. Excellent organizational
skills as well as written and verbal
communication skills are required.
Must be able to lift and carry a minimum of thirty (30) pounds. A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
upon
the
applicant’s
applicant
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, locates supply
sources and purchases supplies and
equipment. Advertises for bids. Analyzes bids received and makes recommendations.
Resolves
purchase
and/or supplier issues. Writes purchase specifications. Performs jobrelated duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy
at
all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXMINATION
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CIVIL
SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS FOLLOWS.

200

February 16, 2011

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2011
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 11-4: 7513 St. Clair
Avenue (Ward 8)
Brenell Boynton, owner, appeals
to establish use as a restaurant and
entertainment hall a two-story building located on a 55.47' x 149' parcel in a C1 Local Retail Business
District; subject to the limitations in
Section 343.01 the proposed use is
not permitted and first allowed in a
General Retail Business District;
and contrary to Section 347.12 the
use abuts a residence district at the
rear property line and fails to meet
the distance requirement of 500 feet
from a residence district; and a
parking area in the amount of three
times
the
gross
floor
area
is
required in accordance with Section
349.04(e) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.

The City Record

February 16, 2011
Calendar No. 11-8: 1393 East 51st
Street (Ward 8)
Technical
College,
Inc.,
Ohio
owner, appeals to surface for a
parking lot an existing vacant 30'
x 125.07' parcel in a B1 Two-Family District, where the Board of Zoning Appeals may permit, temporarily or permanently, the use of land,
other than that in a Limited OneFamily District, for a parking lot
when the best interests of the community will be served, provided that
(1) the lot is used only for parking
of passenger automobiles of employees, customers or guests of the person or firm controlling and operating the lot who shall be responsible
for it maintenance; (2) no charge is
to be made for parking; (3) the lot
is not used for sales, repair work or
servicing of any kind; (4) entrance
to and exist from the lot are to be
located so as to do the least harm
to the Residence District; (5) no
advertising sign or material is to be
located on the lot; (6) all parking is
to be kept back of the setback building line by barrier unless specifically authorized otherwise by the
Board; (7) the parking lot and portion of the driveway back of the
building line are to be adequately
screened from the street and from
adjoining property in a Residence
District by a hedge, sightly fence or
wall not less than four feet six inches high and not more than five feet
high located back of the setback
building line; all lighting is to be
arranged so that there is no glare
that annoys occupants of adjoining
property and the surface of the lot
is to be smoothly graded, hard surfaced and adequately drained; (8)
the building permit number under
which the lot is established is to be
posted; (9) and such other conditions may be imposed as the Board
deems necessary in a specific case
to reduce the adverse effect of the
proximity of a parking lot upon the
character, development and maintenance of the Residence District in
which the parking lot is located
according to Section 349.13(c); and
the proposed parking lot plan shows
two (2) spaces in the front setback,
shows no landscaping nor screening
and driveway access to the lot is
from another, separate parcel.
Calendar No. 11-11: 14320 Puritas
Avenue (Ward 18)
John Foradis, owner, appeals to
establish, to change use from a store
to a landscaping and paint contractor office and storage, including outdoor storage and construction of
mulch stalls on an 80' x 143.26' lot
in zoning for C1 General Retail
Business and A1 One-Family Districts, where the proposed change of
use is not permitted under Sections
343.11 and 337.02 of the Cleveland
Zoning Code and is first permitted
in a Semi-Industry District; and pursuant to Sections 352.08 through
352.12, a 10 foot wide landscaped
transition strip providing 75 percent
or greater year round opacity is
required as a screen barrier between
the lot and the abutting residential
district; and provisions in Section
347.08 require that the trash/dumpster on the premises be screened
and not visible from the street, and
the substitution of a nonconforming
use requires the Board of Zoning
Appeals approval according to Section 359.01 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.

23

Calendar No. 11-12: 1425 Rockwell
Avenue (Ward 3)
The Matrix Group, owner, appeals
to establish / construct a parking
lot on acreage in a C3 Semi-Industry District and pursuant to the
landscaping requirements in Sections 352.10 and 352.11 of the Cleveland Zoning Code, a 100 square foot
island strip 4 feet wide is required
to be installed every 20 parking
spaces and a landscaping strip 4
feet wide is required along Rockwell Avenue.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, February 14, 2011, the following appeals
were heard by the Board.
following
The
Approved:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 10-265: 3301 Monroe
Avenue
Partners,
owner,
and
Brandon
Scrap Processors of Ohio LLC, tenant, appealed to establish use as
recycling and storage of auto parts
and components materials in a General Industry District; subject to
conditions.
Calendar No. 10-266: 13933 Lakewood
Heights Boulevard
Campbell Properties Incorporated
appealed for an addition to an existing gas station/convenience store
and a new canopy in a Local Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 10-269: 2516 East 40th
Street
Mt.
Herman
Baptist
church
appealed to erect a double faced digital, message ground sign in a Local
Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 11-1: 10435 Clifton Boulevard
Ronald Marthaller appealed for a
change of use from a store in a
mixed use building to a coffee shop
located in a One-Family District.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
None.
The following appeals were Dismissed:
None.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 10-242: 4210 Franklin
Boulevard postponed to April 18,
2011.
Calendar No. 10-274: 4135 Lee Road
postponed to April 4, 2011.
Calendar No. 11-2: 3299 East 142nd
Street postponed to April 4, 2011.
Calendar No. 11-10: 3662 East 108th
Street postponed to March 28, 2011.
The following appeals scheduled
for February 22, 2011 were Postponed:
Calendar No. 11-6: 3800 Bridge Avenue
postponed to March 28, 2011.

201

Calendar No. 10-245: 3237 Scranton
Road postponed to May 23, 2011.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on February 7, 2011 were
adopted and approved on February
14, 2011.
The
following
Approved:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 10-268: 4512 Pearl Road
Yuriy Vereshchagin appealed to
establish a martial arts studio /
sports or recreational use in an
existing building in a Local Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 10-270: 4506 West 156th
Street
Stella Kundick appealed to erect
an
L-Shaped
wooden
wheelchair
ramp at the front of a dwelling on
a corner parcel in a One-Family District.
Calendar No. 10-271: 2210 Oak Park
Avenue
Agnes Pesler appealed to erect
two
landings
and
one
modular
wheelchair ramp in the front yard
of a dwelling in a Two-Family District; subject to modified plan.
Calendar No. 10-272: 2238 East 80th
Street
Charles
Maultsby
appealed
to
erect a pre-manufactured wheelchair
lift at the side of a front porch of
a dwelling in a Two-Family District;
subject to condition.
Calendar No. 10-273: 2174 East 35th
Street
Carolyn Davis appealed to erect a
wooden wheelchair ramp in the
front yard of a dwelling house in a
Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 10-232: 1594 East 96th
Street
City of Cleveland appealed to
erect 39.98 lineal feet of 6 feet high,
black vinyl chain link fence at the
front of a vacant lot for a community garden in a Two-Family District; subject to landscape plan.
Calendar No. 10-233: 1598 East 96th
Street
City of Cleveland appealed to
erect 33 lineal feet of 6 feet high,
black vinyl chain link fence at the
front of a vacant lot for a community garden in a Two-Family District; subject to landscape plan.
Calendar No. 10-234: 1600 East 96th
Street
City of Cleveland appealed to
erect 52.96 lineal feet of 6 feet high,
black vinyl chain link fence at the
front of a vacant lot for a community garden in a Two-Family District; subject to landscape plan
Calendar No. 10-235: 1608 East 96th
Street
City of Cleveland appealed to
erect 88 lineal feet of 6 feet high,
black vinyl chain link fence at the
front of a vacant lot for a community garden in a Two-Family District; subject to landscape plan
Calendar No. 10-247: 2318 West 5th
Street
Matt Berges, owner, and Scott
Lucci,
prospective
purchaser,
appealed to erect a three-story,
frame one family dwelling in a TwoFamily District.

The City Record

24
The following appeal heard by the
Board on January 31, 2011 was
adopted and approved on February
14, 2011.
The
following
Approved:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 10-255: 4622 Superior
Avenue
Ernest Adamic dba Safeway Tire
Company appealed for an expansion
of use at a used car sale lot and
storage facility to accommodate a
car wash and car detail center in a
Semi-Industry District; subject to
condition.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

ment: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2011

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
CLEVELAND CITY COUNCIL
Request for Proposals for professional services to provide a software
solution and services necessary to
update, customize, and implement
the City Council Website, and to create a City Council Intranet site. Proposals due by February 25, 2011.
The City Council website must provide clear and concise information
for citizens of Cleveland regarding
the work of the Council, as well as
access to the various services of the
City of Cleveland and the City Council.  For more information and to see
the Request for Proposals, go to
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
or
call (216) 664-4466.
January 26, 2011, February 2, 2011, February 9, 2011, February 16, 2011 and
February 23, 2011

File No. 18-11 — Gordon Square
Fence
Improvements
(Re-Bid),
for the Division of Architecture and
Site Development, Department of
Public Works, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 937-10, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 14, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT
OF
TWENTY-FIVE
($25.00)
IN
THE
DOLLARS
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND OR MONEY ORDER ONLY
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
(NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011
AT 10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL,
DIVISION
OF
ARCHITECTURE AND SITE DEVELOPMENT, CONFERENCE ROOM,
ROOM 517A, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
February 9, 2011 and February 16, 2011

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 2011
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertise-

File No. 19-11 — Ductile Iron Pipe
and Fittings, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.25
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011
AT 10:00 A.M. THE DIVISION OF
WATER,
DISTRIBUTION
&
MAINTENANCE, PIPE REPAIR
CONFERENCE ROOM, 4600 HARVARD
AVENUE,
NEWBURGH
HEIGHTS, OHIO 44105.
File No. 20-11 — CPP Capacity
Expansion Program 138KV Loop
Circuit Installation for Easterly
TDPS-Sub CPP Spec No. LCINST2010, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 556-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 9, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00)
IN
THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND OR MONEY ORDER ONLY

202

February 16, 2011
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011 AT
11:00 A.M. CLEVELAND PUBLIC
POWER DIVISION, 1300 LAKEAVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
SIDE
OHIO 44114.
February 9, 2011 and February 16, 2011
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 2011
File No. 16-11 — Public Safety Buildings Roof Replacement Project
(Re-Bid), for the Division of Architecture
and
Site
Development,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized By Ordinance Nos. 888-06
and 781-09, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, August 9,
2006 and June 1, 2009, respectively.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
IN
THE
SPECIFICATIONS
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S CHECK AND OR
MONEY ORDER ONLY (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 517, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
February 9, 2011 and February 16, 2011
FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 2011
File No. 17-11 — Labor and Materials
to
Install,
Maintain
and
Repair a System to Electronically Track the Mobile Assets of the
Various Divisions of City Government (Re-Bid), for the Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 538-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 4, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2011 AT
11:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES, ROOM 128,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
February 9, 2011 and February 16, 2011
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2011
File No. 21-11 — Federal Services
Station Building Improvements
WBS No. H260-3, for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport, Department of Port Control, as authorized by Ordinance No.
273-09, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 8, 2009.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S CHECK AND OR
MONEY ORDER ONLY (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED).

February 16, 2011
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY,
FEBRUARY 25, 2011 AT 10:00
A.M.
CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT,
ENGINEERING BUILDING, 19501
FIVE POINTS ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
February 16, 2011 and February 23, 2011

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 187-11.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency resolution approving the recommendation of the Personnel and Operations Committee of
the hiring of certain employees by
Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, Section 31 of the Charter
of the City of Cleveland mandates
that
the
Council
shall
choose
“such…employees of its own body as
are necessary; and
Whereas, under Rule 12-1 of the
Rules of Council, recommendation for
hiring will come through the office of
the Clerk to the Personnel and Operations Committee; and
Whereas, such recommendation has
been made to the Council and is
attached in File No. 187-11-A; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
approves the recommendation of the
Personnel and Operations Committee
of the hiring of certain employees by
Cleveland City Council, as listed in
File No. 187-11-A.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted February 7, 2011.
Effective February 7, 2011.

Res. No. 191-11
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 3904 Martin Luther King, Jr., Boulevard, 1st
floor and repealing Resolution No.
1099-10, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 3094 Martin Luther King, Jr., Boulevard, 1st
floor by Resolution No. 1099-10 adopted by the Council on August 18, 2010;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to Pamela Hubbard, DBA McClain’s Market II, 3904
Martin Luther King, Jr., Boulevard,
1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 40342570005 be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1099-10, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 1454-10.
By Council Members Dow, K. Johnson and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties to enter into one or
more contracts with City Architecture
Inc. for professional architectural
and engineering services necessary
to design improvements to League
Park.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 113801, passed June 19, 2001, this Council
authorized the Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Public
Service and/or Economic Development to enter into a public improvement contract to improve League
Park; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 84102, passed June 10, 2002, this Council
authorized an amendment to Ordinance No. 1138-01 to add a professional services contract with City Architecture, Inc. to provide programming
and masterplanning services for the
redevelopment of League Park; and
Whereas, architectural and engineering services are necessary in
order to design and implement the
restoration of League Park; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with City Architecture, Inc.
for professional services necessary to
design and implement the restoration
of League Park on the basis of its proposal dated October 27, 2010, for the
Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties. The contract or contracts
shall be paid from Fund No. 20 SF 523
and from the fund or funds deemed
appropriate by the Director of
Finance for this purpose, Request No.
RQS 7003, RL 2010-190.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

203

25
Ord. No. 1506-10.
By Council Members K. Johnson
Sweeney
(by
departmental
and
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties to apply for and accept
a grant from the Ohio Department of
Education for the 2011 Summer Food
Service Program; authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of
breakfasts and lunches and for food,
food products, beverages, condiments
and paper products to implement the
grant, for the Division of Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties; and authorizing the Director to contract with various non-profit
organizations for the implementation
of the Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in the approximate amount of
$450,000.00, from the Ohio Department
of Education, to conduct the 2011 Summer Food Service Program for the
purposes described in the summary;
that the Director is authorized to file
all papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 1506-10-A, made a part
of this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to make one or more written requirement contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the
requirements during the grant term
of unitized breakfasts and lunches
for the breakfast and lunch program
to be served at twenty City recreation
centers and at various non-profit
agencies and other agencies or recreation facilities as determined by the
Director, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties. Bids shall
be taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as a
single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of
the items as the Board of Control shall
determine.
Section 4. That provided the agencies meet the eligibility requirements
of the Ohio Department of Education,
the Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is authorized to make one
or more written contracts with the
various non-profit organizations to
implement the 2011 Summer Food Service Program.
Section 5. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to make one or more written requirement contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the
requirements for the grant period for
the necessary items of various natural foods, food products, beverages,
condiments and paper products, to be
served as part of the meal program at
Camp George L. Forbes, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Pur-

26
chases and Supplies upon a unit basis
for the Division of Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Section 6. The cost of the contract or
contracts shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account, and
the Director of Finance shall certify
the amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 7. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties may sign all documents that are necessary to make the
purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 8. That, notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 181.24 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, to the contrary, bidders for
the contract or contracts authorized
by this ordinance shall be required to
submit a bid bond in the amount of
five percent of the amount of the bid,
as required by United States Treasury
Circular 570.
Section 9. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 1552-10.
By Council Members Kelley Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of cleaning, cement
mortar lining, and replacing various
distribution water mains in 2011; and
authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to enter into one or more public improvement contracts for the
making of the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland, it
is determined to make the public
improvement of cleaning, cement
mortar lining, and replacing various
distribution water mains in the City
of Cleveland in 2011, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities, by one or more contracts duly let
to the lowest responsible bidder or
bidders after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making
of the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding upon a unit
basis for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or
any combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to apply and
pay for permits, licenses, or other
authorizations required by any regulatory agency or public authority to
permit performance of the work
authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement and other expenditures
authorized shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 52 SF 001, 52 SF 229, 52 SF 231, and
52 SF 235, RQS 2002, RL 2010-159.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 1563-10.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 524 East 108th Street to
Regina M. Burrell.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real property, more
fully described below, to Regina M.
Burrell.
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 108-15-012
Situated in the City of Cleveland
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot No.
124 in the William Ambler’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 362 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 38 of Maps,
Page 23 of Cuyahoga County Records
and being 40 feet front on the Westerly side of East 108th Street and
extending back of equal width 100
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.

204

February 16, 2011
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 1564-10.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at East 179th Street to
Collinwood and Nottingham Villages
Development Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real property, more
fully described below, to Collinwood
and Nottingham Villages Development Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 116-07-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and being more fully described
as follows: Parcel No. 2 of Lot Split for

February 16, 2011
Cleveland Range Company of part of
Original Euclid Township Tract No.15, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 268 of Maps, Page 15 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 1566-10.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 7278 Wentworth Avenue to
Randy L. King.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real property, more
fully described below, to Randy L.
King.
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 006-28-093
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

The City Record
Ohio: and known as being Sublot No.
51 in Laura L. Otis’ Subdivision of part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 27, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 14 of Map’s, Page 45 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and being
40 feet front on the Northerly side of
Wentworth Avenue, S.W. and extending back of equal width,135.42 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 1612-10.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
apply to the Northeast Ohio Areawide
Coordinating Agency for federal
highway funding to remove and
replace the Commercial Road Bridge;
authorizing the director to apply for
and accept grants and gifts from any
public or private entity for the
improvement; authorizing the director to enter into one or more agreements with the Ohio Department of
Transportation, including a Local
Project Agreement, and one or more
agreements
with
railroads,
the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority, private utility companies,
and the NEORSD to make the
improvement, granting consent to the
State of Ohio to make the improvement; authorizing the Director to
employ one or more professional consultants to design the improvement;
and authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire for
right-of-way purposes such real property as is necessary to make the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

205

27
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply to
NOACA to pursue federal highway
funding, on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, for the removal and
replacement of the Commercial Road
Bridge, PID 89064, over CSX Railroad
and under the Norfolk and Southern
Railroad (the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to accept
the funds from NOACA for the
Improvement, and those funds are
appropriated for the purposes of this
ordinance.
Section 3. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
and accept grants or gifts from any
public or private entity for the purpose of the Improvement. The Director is further authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds accepted under this ordinance, and which
shall be appropriated for the purposes
of this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of Capital Projects and/or Director of Public
Works is authorized to enter into one
or more Local Project Administration
(“LPA”) agreements with the Ohio
Department of Transportation to partially fund and construct any portion
of the Improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
any agreements as are necessary to
carry out the intent and purpose of
this ordinance.
Section 6. That it is declared to be in
the public interest, and the consent of
the City of Cleveland is given to the
Director of Transportation of the
State of Ohio (“the State”) to construct the Improvement under plans,
specifications,
and
estimates
approved by the ODOT Director.
Section 7. That the City proposes to
cooperate with the State in the cost of
the Improvement by assuming and
contributing the entire cost and
expense of the Improvement, less the
amount of federal funds allocated by
the Federal Highway Administration,
United States Department of Transportation, or other funds set aside by
the State and NOACA for financing
the Improvement from funds allocated by any state or federal agency. The
City agrees to assume and contribute
100% of the cost of preliminary engineering, right-of-way, and environmental documentation. The City
agrees to assume and contribute 100%
of the cost of any items included in
the construction contract at the
request of the City, which are determined by the State not eligible or
made necessary by the Improvement.
Section 8. That in the event there is
any change in the Federal or State
legislation or policy permitting a
greater percentage of Federal or
state participation for the actual
costs of the Improvement, then the
City’s payment shall or will be
reduced accordingly and the excess
funds shall be returned to the City of
Cleveland.
Section 9. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with the
State necessary to complete the planning and construction of the Improvement, which agreements shall contain
terms and conditions that the Director
of Law determines shall best protect
the public interest.
Section 10. That on completion of
the Improvement, the City will:
(a) Maintain the Improvement
according to the provisions of the
statutes relating thereto and make
ample financial and other provisions
for the maintenance;

28
(b) Maintain the right-of-way and
keep it free of obstruction in a manner satisfactory to the State and hold
the right-of-way inviolate for public
highway purposes and permit no
signs, posters, billboards, roadside
stands, or other private installations
within the limits of the right-of-way.
Section 11. (a) That the City agrees
that all right-of-way required for the
described project will be acquired
and/or made available under current
State and federal regulations. The
City also understands that right-ofway costs include eligible utility
costs.
(b) That the construction, reconstruction, and rearrangement of all
utilities shall be done in a manner as
not to interfere unduly with the operations of the contractor or contractors
constructing the Improvement, and
all backfilling of trenches made necessary by utility rearrangement shall
be performed under the provisions of
the ODOT Construction and Material
Specifications and shall be subject to
approval by the State.
(c) That the installation of all utility facilities on the right-of-way shall
conform with the requirements of
Title 23 CFR 645 and the ODOT Utilities Manual.
Section 12. That this Council
requests the State to proceed with the
Improvement.
Section 13. That the City will work
cooperatively with other governmental units affected by the Improvement.
Section 14. That the City will abide
by NOACA policies regarding planning, programming, and prioritizing
road and bridge projects.
Section 15. That the City may
assign all rights, title, and interests
of the City to ODOT arising from any
agreement with the consultant in
order to allow ODOT to direct additional or corrective work, recover
damages due to errors or omissions,
and to exercise all other contractual
rights and remedies afforded by law
or equity.
Section 16. That the City agrees
that if Federal Funds are used to pay
the cost of any consultant contract,
the City shall comply with 23 CFR 172
in the selection of its consultant and
the administration of the consultant
contract. Further, the City agrees to
incorporate ODOT’s “Specifications
for Consulting Services” as a contract
document in all of its consultant contracts. The City agrees to require, as a
scope of services clause, that all plans
prepared by the consultant must conform to ODOT’s current design standards and that the consultant shall be
responsible for ongoing consultant
involvement during the construction
phase of the Improvement. The City
agrees to include a completion schedule acceptable to ODOT and to assist
ODOT in rating the consultant’s performance through ODOT’s Consultant
Evaluation System.
Section 17. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to design
the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Service from a
list of ODOT pre-qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Service for the purpose of com-

The City Record
piling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed by
the Board of Control. The contract or
contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Service, and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 18. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to the
contrary, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire for right-of-way purposes
such real property as is necessary to
make the Improvement. The consideration to be paid for the property shall
not exceed fair market value.
Section 19. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to execute on
behalf of the City all documents necessary to acquire the property and to
employ and pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers,
and all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the property.
Section 20. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with the railroads or the GCRTA to obtain services and acquire property rights
such as easements and licenses, necessary for the Improvement.
Section 21. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to accept a
cash contribution from any private
utility company for restoration costs
associated with relocating, rehabilitating or reconstructing utility infrastructure for the Improvement. That
the Director of Public Service is
authorized to enter into agreements
with the entities for this purpose.
Section 22. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed to transmit to the State three (3) certified
copies of this ordinance immediately
on its taking effect, and it shall
become the basis for proceeding with
the Improvement.
Section 23. That the cost of the contracts, property acquisition, or other
expenditure authorized in this ordinance shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20
SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF 500,
20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520, 20 SF
528, 20 SF 534, and from the fund or
funds which are credited the grant
proceeds accepted under this ordinance, and from the fund or funds
which are credited the proceeds of the
Local Project Administration agreement. (RQS 4004, RL 2010-183)
Section 24. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 1616-10.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 2245 East 69th Street to Desdalena M. Trice.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, adminis-

206

February 16, 2011
tered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real property, more
fully described below, to Desdalena
M. Trice.
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-22-077
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
24 in Clark and Payne’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 335, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 11 of Maps, Page 33 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and forming a parcel of land 40 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 69th Street
(formerly Jessie Street) and extending back 138.59 feet deep on the
Northerly line, 138.54 feet deep on the
Southerly line and having a rear line
of 40 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 6-11.
By Council Members Miller and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of recycled or

February 16, 2011
virgin asphalt concrete, for the Division of Streets, Department of Public
Works and the various divisions of
the Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Works is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the term
of one year or two years for the necessary items of recycled or virgin
asphalt concrete in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division of
Streets, Department of Public Works
and the various divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of the items as the Board of Control
determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements for
the entire term. The Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term of
two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance, a
financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Public
by
comparing
the
bids
Works
received for both terms.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
account and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract certified
by the Director of Finance. (RQN
4006, RL 2010-69)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Works may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 8-11.
By Council Members Keane, Miller
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Works to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 38890 with Pleasant Valley Enterprises for the lease of property located at 14550 Lorain Avenue, for a period of one year.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Director of Public Works is authorized to enter into an amendment to
Lease Agreement No. 38890, for the
lease of property at 14550 Lorain
Avenue to extend the term for one
year. The rental for the extension
term shall be $88,000, payable from
Fund No. 11 SF 401, RQS 4006, RL 2010208.
Section 2. That the amendment
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 10-11.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 14 of Ordinance No. 46710, passed May 24, 2010, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1520-10, passed
November 29, 2010; relating to authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
and expend funds on various programs approved under the Neighborhood Stabilization 2 Program, including the Very Low Income housing project program.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 46710, passed May 24, 2010, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1520-10, passed
November 29, 2010, this Council authorized the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept
approximately $20,803,162 in grant
funds to conduct the Neighborhood
Stabilization 2 Program (“NSP 2”)and
to authorize various activities and
agreements to implement the NSP 2;
and
Whereas, an additional $4,910,348 in
grant funds are available under NSP 2
for Very Low Income housing project
activities, for a total of $25,713,510 in
NSP 2 grant funds; and
Whereas, the City through the
Department of Community Development has been authorized to accept
the NSP 2 funding; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 14 of
Ordinance No. 467-10, passed May 24,
2010, as amended by Ordinance No.
1520-10, passed November 29, 2010, are
amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Neighborhood
Stabilization II Program shall be
administered in accordance with the
Executive Summary, placed in File
No. 467-10-C, which file shall also
contain a description of the Neighborhood Stabilization 2 Program.

207

29
Section 14. That the cost of the
contracts authorized in this ordinance shall not exceed $25,713,510,
and shall be paid from the fund or
funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under Ordinance No. 463-09, passed April 20,
2009.
Section 2. That existing Sections 1
and 14 of Ordinance No. 467-10, passed
May 24, 2010, as amended by Ordinance No. 1520-10, passed November
29, 2010, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 11-11.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to apply for and accept grants
from the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development and
the State of Ohio for the Neighborhood
Stabilization Program 3 approved
under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
apply for and accept grants from the
U. S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) and the
State of Ohio in the total aggregate
amount of $6,793,290 for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program 3 purposes set forth in the budgets and according thereto and in compliance with
the requirements of the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grants, and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the summary for the
grants.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 11-11-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation, is approved in all
respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

The City Record

30
Ord. No. 12-11.
By Council Members Brancatelli
Sweeney
(by
departmental
and
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to consent to the assignment
of Contract Nos. 57403 and 58993 from
West Virginia Building LLC to WV
Lofts, LLC regarding the rehabilitation of rental units at 1830-40 West
28th Street; and authorizing the Director to enter into amendments to the
assigned contracts regarding certain
terms.
Whereas, under Ordinance Nos.
1017-99, passed June 17, 1999 and Ordinance No. 1044-01, passed June 19,
2001, this Council authorized the
Director of Community Development
to enter into Contract Nos. 57403 and
58993 with West Virginia Building
LLC regarding the rehabilitation of
rental units at 1830-40 West 28th
Street; and
Whereas, West Virginia Building
LLC is willing to allow WV Lofts,

February 16, 2011

LLC to assume the obligations of Contract Nos. 57403 and 58993; and
Whereas, West Virginia Building
LLC has requested consent of the City
to the assignment of Contract Nos.
57403 and 58993; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
consent to the request of West Virginia Building LLC to assign the
obligations of Contract Nos. 57403 and
58993 to WV Lofts LLC (“Assignments”).
Section 2. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into amendments to Contract
Nos. 57403 and 58993, assigned by Section 1 of this ordinance (“Amendments”), with WV Lofts LLC containing
the
following
provisions
described in File No. 12-11-A.

Section 3. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
execute all documents and do all
things necessary to effect the consent
to the Assignments and Amendments
authorized by this legislation. A copy
of the Assignments shall be filed in
the Office of the Commissioner of
Accounts.
Section 4. That the amendments
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 88-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to pay as Moral Claims the sums opposite the
names of the claimants.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Finance is authorized to pay as Moral Claims the sums opposite the names of
the following claimants and charged against the fund:
Claimant:

Claim No.

Amount

Division

Fund

$ 216.38

Housing Inspections

01-800501-672000

$ 175.00
170.00

City Jail
City Jail

01-600701-672000
01-600701-672000

$1,427.00
500.00

Fire
Fire

01-600302-672000
01-600302-672000

$ 146.16
1,000.00

Fire Rescue
Fire Rescue

01-600302-672000
01-600302-672000

$ 500.00
500.00

Police
Traffic

01-600202-672000
01-600202-672000

$ 300.00

Clinic

01-500501-67200

$ 100.00
205.00
250.00
332.00
174.94

Vacant
Vacant
Vacant
Vacant
Vacant

Department of Building and Housing – Board-up
Burkes, Tracie

12219

Department of Public Safety– House of Corrections
Titus, Turner
Thomas, Robert

12243
12159

Department of Public Safety– Fire
Duncan, Demond
Kreiger, Matthew G.

12231
12253

Department of Public Safety– Fire Rescue
O’Conner, Jennie
Staples, Incorporated

12264
12270

Department of Public Safety – Police
TMS Enterprise
Jarvis, Michelle

12235
12277

Department of Public Health– Thomas F. McCafferty Health Center
Leu, Melanie

12267

Department of Public Works – Vacant Lots
Hogue, Earl
Kennedy, Clarence
Mullin, Lisa
Rose, Patricia
Mason, Anita

12258
12259
12275
12278
12280

208

Lots
Lots
Lots
Lots
Lots

01-701205-672000
01-701205-672000
01-701205-672000
01-701205-672000
01-701205-672000

The City Record

February 16, 2011

31

Department of Public Works – Urban Forestry
Fayne, Deborah
James, Thomas
Crespo, Luz
Graham, John R.

12246
12272
12274
12281

$ 500.00
500.00
500.00
231.31

Urban
Urban
Urban
Urban

Forestry
Forestry
Forestry
Forestry

01-701204-672000
01-701204-672000
01-701204-672000
01-701204-672000

$ 239.15

Streets

11 SF 401

$ 167.26
744.00

Waste Collection
Waste Collection

01-400303-672000
01-400303-672000

WPC
WPC

54 SF 001
54 SF 001

Department of Public Works –Streets
Majied, Shelia A.

12269

Department of Public Works –Waste
Butcher, Ronnie
Stask, Daniel

12250
12263

Department of Public Utilities –Water Pollution Control
Tracy Cucuzza
Baran, John

4247
5177

$ 238.00
990.00

Section 2. That the authority of the Director of Finance to pay the amounts in this ordinance is conditioned
on a City-approved written acceptance by the claimant of the City’s offer to pay this claim within six months
from the effective date of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

Ord. No. 186-11.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to employ one or
more professional services necessary
to provide group medical, prescription, and dental insurance coverage,
vision and life insurance coverage,
the medical reimbursement accounts,
dependent care accounts, and premium pass-through benefits under Internal Revenue Code Section 125 for City
of Cleveland employees, for a period
of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Personnel and Human Resources, or the
Director of Human Resources, if
renamed under Ordinance No. 92-11, is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts in order to provide professional services necessary to provide
group medical, prescription, and dental insurance coverage, vision and
life insurance coverage, the medical
reimbursement accounts, dependent
care accounts, and premium passthrough benefits under Internal Revenue Code Section 125 for City of
Cleveland employees, for a period of
one year.
The selection of the carriers shall
be made by the Board of Control on
the nomination of the Director from a
list of qualified carriers as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director for the purpose of compiling a list. The cost to be
paid for the contracts shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract
or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Human
Resources, and certified by the Director of Finance.

Section 2. That the contracts shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain any conditions and
provisions that the Director deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest including terms related to which insurance coverage will
cover employees consistent with the
terms of the collective bargaining
agreements ratified by the City, and
the terms and conditions for transferring employees from one plan to
another as collective bargaining
agreements are ratified by the City.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from funds appropriated in budget year 2011 for this purpose, RQN
0402, RL 2011-1.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 7, 2011.

Ord. No. 132-11.
By Council Members Pruitt, Reed,
Polensek, Zone, Westbrook and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to levy
special assessments to relay and
repair sidewalks, driveway aprons
and curbs, including adjustments of
castings and landscaping, if necessary, encroaching upon the public
rights-of-way on East 151st Street
from Glendale Avenue to Bartlett
Avenue; West 90th Street from Clark
Avenue to Denison Avenue; West 61st
Street from Detroit Avenue to Herman Avenue; and West 64th Street
from Detroit Avenue to Herman
Avenue.

209

Whereas, under Resolution No. 8709, adopted March 9, 2009, this Council
declared it necessary to relay and
repair sidewalks, driveway aprons,
and curbs, including adjustments of
castings and landscaping, if necessary, encroaching upon the public
rights-of-way on portions on East
151st Street from Glendale Avenue to
Bartlett Avenue, Melville Road from
St. Clair Avenue to Nottingham Road,
West 61st Street from Detroit Avenue
to Herman Avenue, West 64th Street
from Detroit Avenue to Herman
Avenue, and West 90th Street from
Clair Avenue to Denison Avenue; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 126909, passed September 14, 2009, this
Council amended Resolution No. 87-09
to remove the Melville Road area
from the intended assessment; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 107409, passed August 5, 2009, as amended
by Resolution No. 1272-09, this Council
appointed an assessment equalization board to hear objections to the
estimated assessments by property
owners; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 148809, passed October 12, 2009, this Council approved the report of the assessment equalization board, determined
to proceed with the improvements,
and adopted the equalized assessments; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the assessment of
the cost and expense of relaying and
repairing
sidewalks,
driveway
aprons, and curbs, including adjustments of castings and landscaping, if
necessary, encroaching upon the public right-of-way or otherwise improving the right-of-way in accordance
with plans, specifications and pro-

The City Record

32
files on East on East 151st Street from
Glendale Avenue to Bartlett Avenue;
West 90th Street from Clark Avenue
to Denison Avenue; West 61st Street
from Detroit Avenue to Herman
Avenue; and West 64th Street from
Detroit Avenue to Herman Avenue in
the City of Cleveland as set forth in
Resolution No. 87-09, adopted March 9,
2009, as amended by Ordinance No.
1269-09, passed September 14, 2009,
and amounting in the aggregate to
$536,110.65, as reported to this Council
by the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses in File No. 132-11-A, is
adopted and conformed, and that
there are levied and assessed on the
lots and lands within the Improvement fifty percent (50%) of each of
the several amounts reported as
aforesaid, which assessments and the
description of the lots and lands are
now on file in the office of the Clerk
of Council and which assessments are
in proportion to the special benefits
and are not in excess of any statutory
limitation.
Section 2. That this Council finds
and determines that the revised
assessments now on file in the office
of the Clerk are in the same proportion to the estimated assessments as
originally filed as the actual cost of
the above-described improvements
are to the estimated cost of the
improvements as originally filed.
Section 3. That the assessment
against each lot or parcel of land
shall be payable in cash within forty
(40) days after the passage of this
ordinance or at the option of the

owner in five (5) annual installments.
All cash payments shall be made to
the Commissioner of Licenses and
Assessments of this City. All assessments and installments remaining
unpaid at the expiration of said forty
(40) days shall be certified by the
Clerk of this Council to the County
Auditor as provided by law to be
placed by him on the tax duplicate
and collected as other taxes are collected.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to file a certified copy of
this ordinance with the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County within twenty (20)
days of the date of its passage as
required by Section 319.61, Ohio
Revised Code.
Section 5. That it is found and determined that all formal action of this
Council concerning and relating to
the adoption of this ordinance were
adopted in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and any of its committees
that resulted in such formal action
were in meetings open to the public,
in compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed February 7, 2011.
Effective February 10, 2011.

February 16, 2011
COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, February 14, 2011
9:00 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone. Authorized Absence:
Conwell.
2:00 p.m.
Committee:
Present:
Finance
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Brady,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,
Pruitt, Westbrook.
Tuesday, February 15, 2011
9:00 a.m.
Community and Economic Development
Committee:
COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT
BLOCK
GRANT
BUDGET HEARINGS. Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, J. Johnson, Miller, Pruitt,
Westbrook,
Zone.
Authorized
Absence: Cummins.
Wednesday, February 16, 2011
9:00 a.m.
Community and Economic Development
Committee:
COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT
BLOCK
GRANT
BUDGET HEARINGS. Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, J. Johnson, Miller, Pruitt,
Zone.
Westbrook,
Authorized
Absence: Cummins.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Balewski, Sean - professional services (O 208-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195
Safety Department - US Navy to display bell of USS Cleveland (O 206-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 194

Appreciation Resolutions
Fleming, Kenneth L. (R 240-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181

Board of Control - Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Office renovation of Passenger Terminal Building - amend contract per BOC Res. 395-10 Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 47-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197

Board of Control - Finance Department
Fairville Avenue, 18900 - PPN 026-26-052 - Kamms Corners Development Corporation per Ord.
275-09 (BOC Res. 51-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
Ottawa Avenue, 7411 - PPN 133-19-061 - Slavic Village Development Corporation per Ord.
1558-08 (BOC Res. 52-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 199

Board of Control - Land Sales
Fairville Avenue, 18900 - PPN 026-26-052 - Kamms Corners Development Corporation per Ord.
275-09 (BOC Res. 51-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
Ottawa Avenue, 7411 - PPN 133-19-061 - Slavic Village Development Corporation per Ord.
1558-08 (BOC Res. 52-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 199

210

February 16, 2011

The City Record

33

Board of Control - Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Cab and chassis with automated refuse body - per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 to Hans’ Truck and
Trailer Repair, Inc., dba Hans’ Freightliner of Cleveland - Dept. of Public Works
(BOC Res. 48-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
Diesel fuel - per C.O. Sec. 131.65 to Great Lakes Petroleum Company - Dept. of
Public Works (BOC Res. 50-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
Diesel fuel - per C.O. Sec. 131.65 to Mansfield Oil Company of Gainesville, Inc. - Dept.
of Public Works (BOC Res. 49-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198

Board of Control - Personnel and Human Resources Department
Insurance (Medical, prescription, dental, vision, life, medical reimbursement) - per Ord.
186-11 to Medical Mutual of Ohio; Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of Ohio, Health
Action Council/CVC Caremark, Cigna Dental of Ohio, Metropolitan Life Insurance,
EyeMed, Ohio AFSCME (BOC Res. 53-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 199

Board of Control - Port Control Department
Office renovation of Passenger Terminal Building - amend contract per BOC Res. 395-10 Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 47-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197

Board of Control - Professional Service Contracts
Insurance (Medical, prescription, dental, vision, life, medical reimbursement) - per Ord.
186-11 to Medical Mutual of Ohio; Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of Ohio, Health
Action Council/CVC Caremark, Cigna Dental of Ohio, Metropolitan Life Insurance,
EyeMed, Ohio AFSCME - Dept. of Personnel and Human Resources (BOC Res. 53-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 199

Board of Control - Public Improvement Contracts
Office renovation of Passenger Terminal Building - amend contract per BOC Res. 395-10 Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 47-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197

Board of Control - Public Utilities Department
Sodium hypochlorite solution - per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to JCI Jones Chemicals, Inc. Division of Water (BOC Res. 46-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197

Board of Control - Public Works Department
Cab and chassis with automated refuse body - per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 to Hans’ Truck and
Trailer Repair, Inc., dba Hans’ Freightliner of Cleveland - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 48-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
Diesel fuel - per C.O. Sec. 131.65 to Great Lakes Petroleum Company - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 50-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
Diesel fuel - per C.O. Sec. 131.65 to Mansfield Oil Company of Gainesville, Inc. Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 49-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198

Board of Control - Purchases and Supplies Division
Fairville Avenue, 18900 - PPN 026-26-052 - Kamms Corners Development Corporation per Ord.
275-09 (BOC Res. 51-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
Ottawa Avenue, 7411 - PPN 133-19-061 - Slavic Village Development Corporation per Ord.
1558-08 (BOC Res. 52-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 199

Board of Control - Requirement Contracts
Cab and chassis with automated refuse body - per Ord. 591-08, 1849-08 to Hans’ Truck and
Trailer Repair, Inc., dba Hans’ Freightliner of Cleveland - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 48-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diesel fuel - per C.O. Sec. 131.65 to Great Lakes Petroleum Company - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 50-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diesel fuel - per C.O. Sec. 131.65 to Mansfield Oil Company of Gainesville, Inc. Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 49-11). . . . .
Sodium hypochlorite solution - per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to JCI Jones Chemicals, Inc. Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 46-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197

Board of Control - Water Division
Sodium hypochlorite solution - per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to JCI Jones Chemicals, Inc. - Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 46-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197

Board of Zoning Appeals - Report
Bridge Avenue, 3800, (Ward 3) – West Side United Church of Christ, owner and Happy Works
Daycare, Inc., tenant - appeal postponed to 3/28/2011 on 2/14/11 (Cal. 11-6) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
Clifton Boulevard, 10435, (Ward 16) – Ronald Marthaller, owner - appeal heard on 2/14/11
(Cal. 11-1). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201

211

The City Record

34

February 16, 2011

East 142nd Street, 3299, (Ward 1) – EJ Fletcher, owner - appeal postponed to 4/4/2011 on
2/14/11 (Cal. 11-2). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 35th Street, 2174, (Ward 5) – Carolyn Davis, owner - appeal granted and adopted on
2/14/11 (Cal. 10-273). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 40th Street, 2516, (Ward 5) – Mt. Herman Baptist Church, owner - appeal heard
on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-269) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 80th Street, 2238, (Ward 6) – Charles Maultsby, owner - appeal granted and adopted
on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-272) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 96th Street, 1594, (Ward 7) – City of Cleveland, owner - appeal granted and adopted
on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-232) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 96th Street, 1598, (Ward 7) – City of Cleveland, owner - appeal granted and adopted
on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-233) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 96th Street, 1600, (Ward 7) – City of Cleveland, owner - appeal granted and adopted
on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-234) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 96th Street, 1608, (Ward 7) – City of Cleveland, owner - appeal granted and adopted
on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-235) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 4210, (Ward 3) – Ohio City Near West Development Corporation, owner
- appeal postponed to 4/18/2011 on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-242) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakewood Heights Boulevard, 13933, (Ward 19) – Campbell Properties Incorporated, owner
- appeal heard on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-266) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Road, 4135, (Ward 1) – Toris Realty Company, owner, and David Grimmer and Jonathon
Hayden, tenant - appeal postponed to 4/4/2011 on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-274) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Monroe Avenue, 3301, (Ward 3) – Brandon Partners, owner, and Scrap Processors
of Ohio LLC, tenant - appeal heard on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-265) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oak Park Avenue, 2210, (Ward 13) – Leonard Pessler, owner - appeal granted and adopted
on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-271) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4512, (Ward 13) – Yuriy Vereshchagin, owner - appeal granted and adopted on
2/14/11 (Cal. 10-268). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Road, 3237, (Ward 14) – The 3264 Holdings LLC and Fethi Belhovane, owner
- appeal postponed to 5/23/2011 on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-245) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 4622, (Ward 8) – Ernest Adamic, d.b.a. Safeway Tire Company, owner
- appeal granted and adopted on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-255) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 156th Street, 4506, (Ward 18) – Stella Kundick, owner - appeal granted and adopted
on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-270) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 5th Street, 2318, (Ward 3) – Matt Berges, owner, and Scott Lucci, prospective
purchaser - appeal granted and adopted on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-247) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201

Board of Zoning Appeals - Schedule
East 51st Street, 1393, (Ward 8) – Ohio Technical College, Inc., owner - appeal to
be heard on 2/28/11 (Cal. 11-8). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Avenue, 14320, (Ward 18) – John Foradis, owner - appeal to be heard on 2/28/11
(Cal. 11-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rockwell Avenue, 1425, (Ward 3) – The Matrix Group, owner - appeal to be heard on 2/28/11
(Cal. 11-12) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 7513, (Ward 8) – Brenell Boynton, owner - appeal to be heard on 2/28/11
(Cal. 11-4). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200

Bonds
Bridges and Roadway Improvement Bonds - Fifteen Million One Hundred Fifty-Five Thousand
Dollars - Finance Department (O 130-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds - Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars - Finance Department
(O 128-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds - Two Million Ninety-Five Thousand
Dollars - Finance Department (O 129-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds - Fourteen Million Two Hundred Thirty Thousand Dollars
- Finance Department (O 136-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 197
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 197
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 197
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 197

Burke Lakefront Airport
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69366 with Physio-Control, Inc - maintain & repair
automated external defibrillators - CHIA & Burke Lakefront Airport (O 226-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193
Camp George L. Forbes
Summer Food Program, 2011 - Grant - Ohio Department of Education - food service operation
(O 1506-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203

Capital Projects
Final consent - State of Ohio - rehabilitation & replacement of concrete retaining walls
(O 204-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Avenue N.E. - intention to vacate a portion - City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(R 205-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
NOACA federal highway funding - Commercial Road Bridge rehab. and various contracts
(O 1612-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Radio Lane N.E - intention to vacate a portion - City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(R 224-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rockwell Avenue and East 6th St., - permit - encroach into right-of-way - Rockwell
Property, LLC - installing, using, and maintaining a sidewalk vault (Ward 03)
(O 223-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

212

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 194
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192

February 16, 2011

The City Record

35

City Clerk
City Council Hiring (R 187-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203

City Council
Balewski, Sean - agreement - professional services (O 208-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195
City Council Hiring (R 187-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203

City of Cleveland Bids
Capacity Expansion Program, 138KV loop circuit - Department of Public Utilities Division of Cleveland Public Power - per Ord. 556-08 - bid due March 4, 2011
(advertised 2/9/2011 and 2/16/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ductile iron pipe and fittings - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Water - per
C.O. Sec. 129.25 - bid due March 4, 2011 (advertised 2/9/2011 and 2/16/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electronic tracking system for mobile assets (Re-bid) - Department of Finance - per Ord.
538-09 - bid due March 11, 2011 (advertised 2/9/2011 and 2/16/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Federal Services Station Building Improvements, WBS No. H260-3 - Department of Port
Control - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - per Ord. 273-09 bid due March 30, 2011 (advertised 2/16/2011 and 2/23/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fence improvements at Gordon Square (Re-bid) - Department of Public Works - Division of
Architecture and Site Improvement - per Ord. 937-10 - bid due February 23, 2011
(advertised 2/9/2011 and 2/16/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roof replacement for Public Safety Building (Re-bid) - Department of Public Works
- Division of Architecture and Site Improvement - per Ord. 888-06, 781-09 - bid due
March 9, 2011 (advertised 2/9/2011 and 2/16/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202

City Planning Commission
Amend Sect(s) 1 & 2 of Ord. No. 770-09 - Living Cities - Grants - Reimagining and Re-using
Vacant Land in Cleveland Program (O 185-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply & Accept NOACA Transportation for Livable Communities - (O 218-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Avenue N.E. - intention to vacate a portion - Capital Projects (Ward 03) (R 205-11)
Radio Lane N.E - intention to vacate a portion - Capital Projects (Ward 03) (R 224-11) . . . . . .
Subsidiary additions for Contract No. 4002 PI 2010-34 with R.W. Clark Co. for Coast Guard
Station roof replacement project (O 222-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

197
191
195
193

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69366 with Physio-Control, Inc - maintain & repair
automated external defibrillators - CHIA & Burke Lakefront Airport (O 226-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193

Clerk of Council
Balewski, Sean - agreement - professional services (O 208-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195

Codified Ordinances
Amend Sect. 623.10 - Spray Painting Property (O 207-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
Amend various Sect(s) 241, 508 & 675 - Regarding food vendors (O 210-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182
Amend Section 670A.03 - Registration of Alarm System Users; Fee (O 220-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191

Communications
West 29th Street - Vacation & Dedication Plat (Ward 03) (F 194-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181

Community Development Department
Amend Sect(s) 1 & 14 of Ord. No. 467-10 - Neighborhood Stabilization 2 Program (O 10-11) . . . . . .
Apply & Accept HUD Grant for Neighborhood Stabilization Program 3 (O 11-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contract Nos. 57403 & 58993 - West Virginia Building to WV Lofts, LLC - rehab. of rental
units at 1830-40 West 28th St. (O 12-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 108th St., 524 - PPN 108-15-012 - Land Reutilization Program - Regina M. Burrell (Ward
09)(O 1563-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 156th St., - PPN 142-17-007 - Land Reutilization Program - James A. Frank (Ward 01)
(O 212-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 169th St., 1055 - PPN 113-21-030 - Land Reutilization Program - Rhonda S. Mclean (Ward
11) (O 213-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 179th St. - PPN 116-07-004 - Land Reutilization Program - Collinwood and Nottingham
Villages Development Corp. (Ward 11) (O 1564-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 69th St., 2245 - PPN 118-22-077 - Land Reutilization Program - Desdalena M. Trice
(Ward 05) (O 1616-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elmarge Rd., 10530 - PPN 136-24-044 - Land Reutilization Program - Rayshoun T. Howell (Ward
02) (O 214-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Poe Ave., 4200 - PPN 015-11-088 - Land Reutilization Program - Carlos Caraballo & Rosario
Caraballo (Ward 14) (O 215-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wentworth Ave., 7278 - PPN 006-28-093 - Land Reutilization Program - Randy L. King (Ward
15)(O 1566-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

213

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 208
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 189
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 189
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 189
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 190
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205

The City Record

36

February 16, 2011

West 48th St., 3198 - PPN 016-13-025 - Land Reutilization Program - Zuleyka Luciano (Ward
14) (O 216-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 190

Condolences Resolutions
Bryant, Pauline Benton (R 232-11) . . . . . . . . . .
Curran, Carol (R 235-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dorsey, Rev. Artis Lawson (R 231-11). . . . . . . .
Falcone, Mark (R 233-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hudson, Virginia (R 228-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jefferson, Ruby (R 234-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lamberson, Sr., Rev. Willie Frank (R 221-11) .
Pelican, Mrs. Irene (R 236-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Whatley-Hamilton, Rosa Lee (R 230-11) . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

181
181
181
181
181
181
181
181
181

Congratulatory Resolutions
Jackson, Sista Jewel (R 238-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
Lithuania’s Independence - 93rd Anniversary - (R 237-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181

Contracts
Amend Sect(s) 1 & 14 of Ord. No. 467-10 - Neighborhood Stabilization 2 Program (O 10-11) . . . .
Asphalt concrete, recycled or virgin - Streets Division (O 6-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Balewski, Sean - agreement - professional services (O 208-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capital Projects - final consent - State of Ohio - rehabilitation & replacement of concrete
retaining walls (O 204-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City Architecture Inc. - League Park (Design improvements) (O 1454-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development - Contract Nos. 57403 & 58993 - West Virginia Building to WV Lofts,
LLC - rehab. of rental units at 1830-40 West 28th St. (O 12-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69366 with Physio-Control, Inc - maintain & repair
automated external defibrillators - CHIA & Burke Lakefront Airport (O 226-11) . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69429 with South Shore Cable Construction, Inc. for
lease on Kolthoff Rd. (Ward 19) (O 227-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance - group medical, prescription, dental, vision, life - medical reimbursement dependent care accounts - premium pass-through benefits (O 186-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
NOACA federal highway funding - Commercial Road Bridge rehab. and various contracts
(O 1612-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Works - amend Contract No. 38890 - Pleasant Valley Enterprises - lease property
at 14550 Lorain Ave. (O 8-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Subsidiary additions for Contract No. 4002 PI 2010-34 with R.W. Clark Co. for Coast Guard
Station roof replacement project (O 222-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department - public improvement - cleaning & cement mortar lining (O 1552-10) . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 194
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 208
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204

Economic Development Department
Project agreements - Sell Tops property at 11905 Superior Avenue (O 225-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192

Encroachments
Rockwell Avenue and East 6th St., - permit - right-of-way - Rockwell Property, LLC
- Capital Projects - installing, using, and maintaining a sidewalk vault (Ward 03)
(O 223-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192

Finance Department
Bridges and Roadway Improvement Bonds - Fifteen Million One Hundred Fifty-Five Thousand
Dollars - Finance Department (O 130-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds - Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars - Finance Department
(O 128-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moral Claims - authorize payments (O 88-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds - Two Million Ninety-Five Thousand
Dollars - Finance Department (O 129-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds - Fourteen Million Two Hundred Thirty Thousand Dollars
- Finance Department (O 136-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping - East 151 St., West 61St.,
West 64th St., West 90th St. - relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 197
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 197
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 208
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 197
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 197
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 209

Grants
Amend Sect(s) 1 & 2 of Ord. No. 770-09 - Living Cities - Reimagining and Re-using Vacant
Land in Cleveland Program (O 185-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply & Accept NOACA Transportation for Livable Communities - City Planning Commission
(O 218-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development - Apply & Accept HUD Grant for Neighborhood Stabilization Program
3 (O 11-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development (Drop Off) Program, 2011 - Ohio Department of Natural Resources Public Works(O 219-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Food Program, 2011 - Ohio Department of Education - food service operation - Camp
George L. Forbes (O 1506-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

214

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203

February 16, 2011

The City Record

37

Urban Area Security Initiative Program; 2010 - State of Ohio Emergency Management Agency
(O 134-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197

Health Department
Amend various Sect(s) 241, 508 & 675 - Regarding food vendors (O 210-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182

Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
Community Development - Apply & Accept HUD Grant for Neighborhood Stabilization Program
3 (O 11-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207

Land Reutilization Program
East
East
East
East

108th St., 524 - PPN 108-15-012 - Regina M. Burrell (Ward 09) (O 1563-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
156th St., - PPN 142-17-007 - James A. Frank (Ward 01) (O 212-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
169th St., 1055 - PPN 113-21-030 - Rhonda S. Mclean (Ward 11) (O 213-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
179th St. - PPN 116-07-004 - Collinwood and Nottingham Villages Development Corp.
(Ward 11) (O 1564-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 69th St., 2245 - PPN 118-22-077 - Desdalena M. Trice (Ward 05) (O 1616-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elmarge Rd., 10530 - PPN 136-24-044 - Rayshoun T. Howell (Ward 02) (O 214-11). . . . . . . . . . . .
Poe Ave., 4200 - PPN 015-11-088 - Carlos Caraballo & Rosario Caraballo (Ward 14) (O 215-11) .
Wentworth Ave., 7278 - PPN 006-28-093 - Randy L. King (Ward 15) (O 1566-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 48th St., 3198 - PPN 016-13-025 - Zuleyka Luciano (Ward 14) (O 216-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 189
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 189
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

204
206
189
190
205
190

Lease
Public Works - amend Contract No. 38890 - Pleasant Valley Enterprises - lease property
at 14550 Lorain Ave. (O 8-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207

Liquor Permits
MLK Blvd., 3904 (1st. fl.) - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 1099-10 (Ward
02) (R 191-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203
St. Clair Ave., 18414-16 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 1068-10 (Ward 11)
(R 217-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196

Moral Claims
Moral Claims - authorize payments (O 88-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 208

Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency
Apply & Accept NOACA Transportation for Livable Communities - City Planning Commission
(O 218-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191

Ohio Department of Education
Summer Food Program, 2011 - Grant - food service operation - Camp George L. Forbes
(O 1506-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203

Ohio Department of Natural Resources
Community Development (Drop Off) Program, 2011 - Grant - Ohio Department of Natural
Resources - Public Works(O 219-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
City Architecture Inc. - contracts - League Park (Design improvements) (O 1454-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203
Summer Food Program, 2011 - Grant - Ohio Department of Education - food service operation
- Camp George L. Forbes (O 1506-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203

Permits
Rockwell Avenue and East 6th St., - encroach into right-of-way - Rockwell Property, LLC
- Capital Projects - installing, using, and maintaining a sidewalk vault (Ward 03)
(O 223-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192
Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler - April 23 - Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward 15 and 16)
(O 229-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195

Personnel and Human Resources Department
Insurance - group medical, prescription, dental, vision, life - medical reimbursement dependent care accounts - premium pass-through benefits (O 186-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209

215

The City Record

38

February 16, 2011

Plats
West 29th Street - Vacation & Dedication Plat (Ward 03) (F 194-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181

Port Control Department
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69366 with Physio-Control, Inc - maintain & repair
automated external defibrillators - CHIA & Burke Lakefront Airport (O 226-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69429 with South Shore Cable Construction, Inc. for
lease on Kolthoff Rd. (Ward 19) (O 227-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193

Professional Services
Balewski, Sean - agreement (O 208-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195
City Architecture Inc. - contracts - League Park (Design improvements) (O 1454-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203
Insurance - group medical, prescription, dental, vision, life - medical reimbursement dependent care accounts - premium pass-through benefits (O 186-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209

Project Agreements
Economic Development - Sell Tops property at 11905 Superior Avenue (O 225-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192

Public Improvements
Utilities Department - contract cleaning & cement mortar lining (O 1552-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204

Public Works
Amend Contract No. 38890 - Pleasant Valley Enterprises - lease property at 14550 Lorain
Ave. (O 8-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Asphalt concrete, recycled or virgin - Streets Division (O 6-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City Architecture Inc. - contracts - League Park (Design improvements) (O 1454-10) . . . . . . . .
Community Development (Drop Off) Program, 2011 - Grant - Ohio Department of Natural
Resources (O 219-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Summer Food Program, 2011 - Grant - Ohio Department of Education - food service operation
- Camp George L. Forbes (O 1506-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203

Purchases and Supplies Division
Economic Development - project agreements - Sell Tops property at 11905 Superior Avenue
(O 225-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192

Recognition Resolutions
Women In Worship Choir (3rd Annual Women’s Conference) (R 239-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181

Resolutions of Support
Amend Sect. 2743.60 (ORC) - Ohio Victims Compensation Fund (R 209-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196
Urging Governor Kasich & Ohio General Assembly to pass a budget that protects
funding health, education, human services (R 211-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196

Resolutions- Miscellaneous
Amend Sect. 2743.60 (ORC) - Ohio Victims Compensation Fund (R 209-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196
Urging Governor Kasich & Ohio General Assembly to pass a budget that protects
funding health, education, human services (R 211-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196

Safety Department
Agreement - US Navy to display bell of USS Cleveland (O 206-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 623.10 - Spray Painting Property (O 207-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 670A.03 - Registration of Alarm System Users; Fee (O 220-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Area Security Initiative Program; 2010 - Grant - State of Ohio Emergency Management
Agency (O 134-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 194
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197

Service Department
NOACA federal highway funding - Commercial Road Bridge rehab. and various contracts
(O 1612-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205
Public Works - amend Contract No. 38890 - Pleasant Valley Enterprises - lease property
at 14550 Lorain Ave. (O 8-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
Asphalt concrete, recycled or virgin - Streets Division (O 6-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206

Sidewalks
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping - East 151 St., West 61St.,
West 64th St., West 90th St. - relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209

216

February 16, 2011

The City Record

39

State of Ohio
Capital Projects - final consent - rehabilitation & replacement of concrete retaining walls
(O 204-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 194
Urban Area Security Initiative Program; 2010 - Grant - State of Ohio Emergency Management
Agency (O 134-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197

Streets Division
Asphalt concrete, recycled or virgin - Streets Division (O 6-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206

Street Vacation
Lakeside Avenue N.E. - intention to vacate a portion - City Planning Commission - Capital
Projects (Ward 03) (R 205-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195
Radio Lane N.E - intention to vacate a portion - City Planning Commission - Capital
Projects (Ward 03) (R 224-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193

Summer Food Program
Summer Food Program, 2011 - Grant - Ohio Department of Education - food service operation
- Camp George L. Forbes (O 1506-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203

Utilities Department
Public improvement contract cleaning & cement mortar lining (O 1552-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
Asphalt concrete, recycled or virgin - Streets Division (O 6-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206

Walk- A- Thons
Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler - permit - April 23 - Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward 15 and
16) (O 229-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195

Ward 01
Bryant, Pauline Benton - condolence (R 232-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
East 156th St., - PPN 142-17-007 - Land Reutilization Program - James A. Frank (O 212-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 189
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping - East 151 St., West 61St.,
West 64th St., West 90th St. - relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209

Ward 02
Elmarge Rd., 10530 - PPN 136-24-044 - Land Reutilization Program - Rayshoun T.
Howell (O 214-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 189
MLK Blvd., 3904 (1st. fl.) - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 1099-10 - liquor
permit (R 191-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping - East 151 St., West 61St.,
West 64th St., West 90th St. - relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209
Ward 03
Amend Sect. 2743.60 (ORC) - Ohio Victims Compensation Fund (R 209-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleming, Kenneth L. - appreciation (R 240-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Avenue N.E. - intention to vacate a portion - City Planning Commission - Capital
Projects (R 205-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Radio Lane N.E - intention to vacate a portion - City Planning Commission - Capital
Projects (R 224-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rockwell Avenue and East 6th St., - permit - encroach into right-of-way - Rockwell
Property, LLC - Capital Projects - installing, using, and maintaining a
sidewalk vault (O 223-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging Governor Kasich & Ohio General Assembly to pass a budget that protects
funding health, education, human services (R 211-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 29th Street - Vacation & Dedication Plat (F 194-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181

Ward 04
Hudson, Virginia - condolence (R 228-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
Lamberson, Sr., Rev. Willie Frank - condolence (R 221-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
Ward 05
Dorsey, Rev. Artis Lawson - condolence (R 231-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
East 69th St., 2245 - PPN 118-22-077 - Land Reutilization Program - Desdalena M. Trice
(O 1616-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206
Ward 07
Amend Sect. 2743.60 (ORC) - Ohio Victims Compensation Fund (R 209-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196
City Architecture Inc. - contracts - League Park (Design improvements) (O 1454-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203

217

The City Record

40

February 16, 2011

Ward 08
Amend Sect. 2743.60 (ORC) - Ohio Victims Compensation Fund (R 209-11) . . . . . . . . . . .
Jackson, Sista Jewel - congratulations (R 238-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jefferson, Ruby - condolence (R 234-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Women In Worship Choir (3rd Annual Women’s Conference) - recognition (R 239-11)

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

196
181
181
181

Ward 09
East 108th St., 524 - PPN 108-15-012 - Land Reutilization Program - Regina M.
Burrell (O 1563-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
Economic Development - project agreements - Sell Tops property at 11905 Superior Avenue
(O 225-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192
Women In Worship Choir (3rd Annual Women’s Conference) - recognition (R 239-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181

Ward 10
Whatley-Hamilton, Rosa Lee - condolence (R 230-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181

Ward 11
East 169th St., 1055 - PPN 113-21-030 - Land Reutilization Program - Rhonda S.
Mclean (O 213-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 179th St. - PPN 116-07-004 - Land Reutilization Program - Collinwood and Nottingham
Villages Development Corp. (O 1564-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lithuania’s Independence - 93rd Anniversary - congratulations (R 237-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping - East 151 St., West 61St.,
West 64th St., West 90th St. - relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 18414-16 - withdraw objection to renewal - repeal Res. 1068-10 - liquor
permit (R 217-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 189
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196

Ward 14
Poe Ave., 4200 - PPN 015-11-088 - Land Reutilization Program - Carlos Caraballo & Rosario
Caraballo (O 215-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 190
West 48th St., 3198 - PPN 016-13-025 - Land Reutilization Program - Zuleyka Luciano
(O 216-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 190

Ward 15
Falcone, Mark - condolence (R 233-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler - permit - April 23 - Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward 15 and
16) (O 229-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping - East 151 St., West 61St.,
West 64th St., West 90th St. - relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wentworth Ave., 7278 - PPN 006-28-093 - Land Reutilization Program - Randy L. King
(O 1566-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205

Ward 16
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping - East 151 St., West 61St.,
West 64th St., West 90th St. - relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209
Hermes Cleveland 10 Miler - permit - April 23 - Hermes Sports & Events Inc. (Ward 15 and
16) (O 229-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195

Ward 18
Pelican, Mrs. Irene - condolence (R 236-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181

Ward 19
Curran, Carol - condolence (R 235-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69429 with South Shore Cable Construction, Inc. for
lease on Kolthoff Rd. (O 227-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193
Public Works - amend Contract No. 38890 - Pleasant Valley Enterprises - lease property
at 14550 Lorain Ave. (O 8-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207

Water Mains
Utilities Department - public improvement contract cleaning & cement mortar lining
(O 1552-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204

218

