The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

October the Nineteenth, Two Thousand and Eleven

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
9
9
12
20
22
25
25
25
26
30
31

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
Name Residence
1 Terrell H. Pruitt 3877 East 189th Street 44122
2 Zachary Reed 3734 East 149th Street 44120
3 Joe Cimperman P.O. Box 91688 44101
4 Kenneth L. Johnson 2948 Hampton Road 44120
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland 2369 East 36th Street 44105
6 Mamie J. Mitchell 12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712 44120
7 TJ Dow 7715 Decker Avenue 44103
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson 9024 Parkgate Avenue 44108
9 Kevin Conwell 10647 Ashbury Avenue 44106
10 Eugene R. Miller 13615 Kelso Avenue 44110
11 Michael D. Polensek 17855 Brian Avenue 44119
12 Anthony Brancatelli 6924 Ottawa Road 44105
13 Kevin J. Kelley 5904 Parkridge Avenue 44144
14 Brian J. Cummins 3104 Mapledale Avenue 44109
15 Matthew Zone 1228 West 69th Street 44102
16 Jay Westbrook 1278 West 103rd Street 44102
17 Dona Brady 1272 West Boulevard 44102
18 Martin J. Sweeney 3632 West 133rd Street 44111
19 Martin J. Keane 15907 Colletta Lane 44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Interim Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Interim Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Bernardo Garcia, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Interim Director, Mural Building, 75
Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry, President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President
Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Interim Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry; Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Interim Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Chairman; Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney;
Councilman Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Interim Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lynn McLaughlin-Murray – Courtroom 12A
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan – Courtroom 13A
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2011

Vol. 98

No. 5106

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2011
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.

in providing services of a neighborhood grocery store located at vacant
city-owned property at 10505 St.
Clair Avenue. (Ward 8). Received.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:

FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.

File No. 1487-11.
Re: #5928457 — C1 New Application, Midtown Foods, Inc., 3400
Avenue.
(Ward
5).
Carnegie
Received.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Committee:
Cimperman,
Services
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, October 17, 2011
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff, Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer, Valarie J. McCall, Chief
of Government Affairs, Chris Warren, Chief of Regional Development,
Monyka S. Price, Chief of Education,
Maureen Harper, Chief of Communications, Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary, Andrew Watterson, Chief of
Sustainability,
and
Interim
Law
Director
Langhenry,
Directors
Dumas, Withers, Smith, Wasik, Butler,
Cox,
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols, Griffin, Fumich, Lucille
Ambroz,
Secretary,
Civil
Service
Commission.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Pastor Roscoe J. Heath of New
Praise Ministries, 436 Euclid Square
Mall, located in Euclid, Ohio. Pledge
of Allegiance.

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Conwell, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Zone.

File No. 1489-11.
Re: #9867590 — C1, C2, Transfer
of Ownership Application, Zackry
Inc., d.b.a. Dairy Mart, 3510 Fulton
Road. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1490-11.
Re: #3877735 — C1 New Application, Mohammed Hmeidan, d.b.a.
Johnnys,
2101
Denison
Avenue.
(Ward 3). Received.
File No. 1513-11.
Re: #7642426 — D1, D2, D3, D3A,
D6 Transfer of Ownership Application SNM, LLC, 1889 West 25th
Street,
1st
Floor.
(Ward
3).
Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTANCE
File No. 1491-11.
From Director of Public Utilities
— Contract No. 69399 with KBJ
Incorporated, for the work of 1201
Lakeside Avenue Renovation Phase
I for the Division of Water (Ward
3). Received.
File No. 1497-11.
From Director of Public Works —
Contract No. PI20100000000052 with
D. R. S. Enterprises for the work of
City of Cleveland Cemetery Improvements
—
Package
A.
(various
wards). Received.
File No. 1498-11.
From Director of Public Works —
Contract No. PI20100000000043 with
R. J. Platten Contracting for the
work of City of Cleveland Cemetery
Improvements — Package B. (various wards). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS

COMMUNICATIONS

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.

File No. 1488-11.
Re: #9820740 — C2, C2X Transfer
of
Ownership
Application,
Yash
Kush Two, Inc., d.b.a. Rockcliff Market, 5417 Chester Avenue. (Ward 8).
Received.

File No. 1486-11.
From: Department of Economic
Development. Request for Proposal
Publication — qualified firms, entrepreneurs, and businesses interested

1683

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1499-11—Joseph M. Meister.

The City Record

4
Res. No. 1500-11—Willie Alphonso
Crawford, Sr.
Res. No. 1501-11—Tracey Vukovic.
Res. No. 1502-11—Lillie Margaret
Mosby.
Res. No. 1503-11—Donald Arthur
“D.J.” Jones.
Res. No. 1504-11—Evan McCray.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res.
No.
1505-11—Councilman
Anthony Brancatelli.
Res. No. 1506-11—Dr. Leonard T.
King.
Res. No. 1507-11—Robert M. Long.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1508-11—Andrew Watterson.
Res. No. 1509-11—202nd Annual
Convocation of the Grand Lodge of
Ohio & Accepted Masons.
Res. No. 1510-11—Phi Mu Sorority.
Res. No. 1511-11—Delta Tau Delta
Fraternity.
Res. No. 1512-11—St. James A.M.E.
Church/130th Session of the North
Ohio A.M.E. Annual Conference.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1478-11.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to James R. Watkins to
encroach into the public right-of-way
of Briggs Road by installing, using,
and maintaining back yard improvements to include a concrete parking
area and fencing.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
issue a permit, revocable at the will
of Council, to James R. Watkins
10121
Jasper
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44111
(“Permittee”),
to
encroach into the public right-ofway of Briggs Road by installing,
using, and maintaining back yard
improvements to include a concrete
parking area and fencing at the following location:
Yard Encroachment Area
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 5 and
bounded and described as follows;
Commencing at a point on the South
Line of Jasper Ave. (60 feet wide) distant N. 89° 49' 25" E., 102.30 feet from
the Northwest Corner of Sublot No. 254
in The E.R. Cowin Land Company’s
Boulevard Hill Allotment as shown
by the Recorded Plat in Volume 54 of
Maps, Page 38 of Cuyahoga County
Records. and the Point of Beginning:
Thence N. 89° 49' 25" E., a distance
of 21.26 feet to a point;

Thence S. 37° 01' 41" E., a distance
of 32.00 feet to a point;
Thence S. 53° 19' 10" W., a distance
of 70.96 feet to a point;
Thence N. 36° 40' 37" W., a distance
of 7.00 feet to a point on the North Line
of Briggs Ave. (50 feet wide) and a
Point of Curvature;
Thence Northeast along of a Curve
deflecting to the left and having a
Radius of 577.28 feet, a Central Angle
of 04° 17' 58", an Arc of 43.32 feet and
a Chord of 43.31 feet, which bears N.
51° 10' 24" E to a Point of Compound
Curvature
Thence continuing along a Compound Curve deflecting to the left,
having a Radius of 20.00 feet, a Central Angle of 139° 12' 00", an Arc of
48.39 feet and a Chord of 37.49 feet,
which bears N. 20° 34' 35" W to the
Point of Beginning; containing 906
Square Feet, and 0.0208 Acres of land.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications approved by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all
other required permits, including but
not limited to Building Permits,
before
installing
the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
Permittee has properly indemnified
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry
to
the
encroachment
location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1479-11.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the second option to renew
Contract No. 68393 with Parking Solutions, Inc. to operate a valet parking
service at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; and to amend Contract
No. 68393 to change certain terms of
the contract.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 132-07, passed June 4,
2007 2010, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. 68393 with
Parking Solutions, Inc. to operate a
valet parking service at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport for a
period of two years, with two one-year
options to renew, which require addi-

1684

October 19, 2011
tional legislative authority to exercise; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 125910, passed November 8, 2010, this
Council authorized the first one-year
option to renew to be exercised; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 132-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the second option to renew
on this contract; and
Whereas, the Department of Port
Control and Parking Solutions, Inc.
have agreed to make changes to Contract No. 68393 concerning mutually
beneficial fee changes; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the second option to renew Contract No. 68393 for an additional
year with Parking Solutions, Inc. to
operate a valet parking service at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into an
amendment to Contract No. 68393 with
Parking Solutions, Inc. to increase
the valet parking daily maximum fee
from eighteen dollars ($18.00) to
twenty-one
dollars
($21.00);
to
increase the percentage fee from
twenty-five percent (25%) to fortyeight percent (48%) of Gross Revenues realized by Parking Solutions,
Inc. from fees, commissions, and credits received or receivable, in connection with the valet parking services;
and a percentage fee of twenty-five
percent (25%) of Gross Revenues
realized by Parking Solutions, Inc.
from all fees, commissions, and credits received or receivable in connection with ancillary services.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation
Finance.
Ord. No. 1480-11.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 6117 Central Avenue and
adjacent property on Central Avenue
to John D. Henderson, Jr., or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated
within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Revised
Code and Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

October 19, 2011
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to John
D.Henderson, Jr., or designee.
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold under this ordinance is more
fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-19-023
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being the Easterly 40 feet of Sublot No. 19 in Southern
and Chamberlain’s Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot Nos. 334 and 335, as shown by the
recorded plat of said Subdivision in
Volume 11 of Maps, Page 42, Cuyahoga County Records, said part of
Sublot No. 19 has a frontage of 40 feet
on the Northerly side of Central
Avenue, S.E. and extends back
between parallel lines 150 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
P. P. No. 118-19-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Sublot No.
20 in L.M. Southern and W.S. Chamberlain Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 334
and 335 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 11 of Maps, Page 42 of
Cuyahoga County Records and being
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Central Avenue S.E. (formerly Garden Street) at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 20; thence Easterly along said Northerly line of Central Avenue S.E. 34 feet to the Southwesterly corner of land conveyed to
L.M. Southern by deed dated May 9,
1895 and recorded in Volume 599 Page
494 of Cuyahoga County Records,
thence Northerly along the Westerly
line of land so conveyed to L.M. Southern, 150 feet to the Southerly line of a
16 foot alley (now known as
Hawthorne Court S.E.); thence Westerly along the Southerly line of
Hawthorne Court S.E. 34 feet to the
Northwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 20; thence Southerly along the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 20 to
the place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if any
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall not be less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.

The City Record
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
made by official deed prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain such provisions as may be necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest including such restrictive covenants and
reversionary interests as may be specified by the Board of Control, the
Director of Community Development
or the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1481-11.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1368-10,
passed November 15, 2010, relating to
selling real property as part of the
Land Reutilization Program located
on scattered sites in the North Broadway area to FBE, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1368-10, passed November
15, 2010, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to Section 1 of this
ordinance is more fully described as
follows:
P.P. N. 132-03-008
(Southerly Portion)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being part of Original
100 Acre Lot Nos. 318 and 319 and is
further bounded and described as follows;
Beginning at a 5/8" iron pin found
in the westerly line of East 71st Street
(45 feet wide) at its intersection with
the southerly line a parcel of land conveyed to The City of Cleveland by document recorded in File Number
200502010335 of Cuyahoga County
Records (PPN 132-01-016);
Thence South 01° 11' 53" East,
along the westerly line of said East
71st Street, 69.98 feet to a 5/8" iron pin
set and the Principal Place of Beginning of the parcel of land herein
intended to be described;
Course I:
Thence continuing South 01° 11'
53" East, along the westerly line of
said East 71st Street, 44.66 feet to a
5/8" iron pin set;
Course II:
Thence South 88° 48' 07" West,
360.95 feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;
Course III:
Thence North 44° 47' 33" East, 64.28
feet to a 5/8" iron pin set;

1685

5
Course IV:
Thence North 88° 48' 07" East,
314.72 feet to the Principal Place of
Beginning and containing 0.3463
Acres (15,087 square feet) of land to
be the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 2. That existing Section 2 of
Ordinance No. 1368-10, passed November 15, 2010, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1482-11.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the Ohio Department of
Development, or its successor or
designee, for the rehabilitation of the
Victory Building located at 7012
Euclid Avenue; and authorizing a
contract with Garson Victory, LLC, or
its designee, to implement the project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
grant in an amount up to $3,000,000,
from the Ohio Department of Development, or its successor or designee,
for the rehabilitation of the Victory
Building located at 7012 Euclid
Avenue; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes described in the summary
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for the
grant, File No. 1482-11-A, made a part
of this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into one or more agreements
with Garson Victory, LLC, or its
designee, to implement the project.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the ear-

6
liest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1485-11.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director Human Resources to
employ one or more professional consultants for services necessary to provide group prescription insurance
coverage for City of Cleveland
employees, for a period up to sixteen
months, with a one-year option to
renew, exercisable by the Director of
Human Resources.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Human Resources is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts in
order to provide professional consultants for services necessary to
provide group prescription insurance coverage, for City of Cleveland
employees, for a period up to sixteen months, with a one-year option
to renew, exercisable by the Director of Human Resources.
The selection of the carriers shall
be made by the Board of Control on
the nomination of the Director of
Human Resources from a list of qualified carriers as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Human Resources for
the purpose of compiling a list. The
cost to be paid for the contracts shall
be fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Human
Resources, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the contracts shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain any conditions and
provisions that the Director deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from funds appropriated in budget years 2012 and 2013 for this purpose, RQN 0402, RL 2011-46.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Committees
on Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training, Finance.
Ord. No. 1492-11.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Polensek, Westbrook and Zone.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 195.031, providing for an
exemption from the admission tax for
qualifying live music venues.
Whereas, live music is at the core of
every great American city, offering
opportunities for musicians to hone
their craft and for audiences to learn
about, listen to, and

The City Record
Whereas, appreciate various forms
of music; and
Whereas, a city rich with concert
venues of various sizes that support a
wide-variety of musicians offers residents and visitors increased opportunities to experience the power and
pleasure of live music; and
Whereas, these venues enrich our
community and serve as catalysts for
economic development; and
Whereas, Cleveland is recognized
as a distinctive center for music, from
the Rock-and Roll Hall of Fame to the
Cleveland Orchestra, where a spirit of
innovation continually renews a
thriving music industry, both economically and culturally; and
Whereas, the vitality and the culture
of
Cleveland
are
greatly
enhanced by our ability to attract and
keep local live music venues; and
Whereas, to increase Cleveland’s
standing as a live music destination,
we must encourage private investment in live music; and
Whereas, live music venues are
part of a business sector that has
greater expenses, regulatory requirements, and liabilities than the average business; and
Whereas, providing an admission
tax exemption provides a valuable
incentive for investors to open and
operate well-managed music venues;
and
Whereas, this exemption will help
create a healthy business environment, leverage Cleveland’s competitive advantage in the music industry,
and bolster economic development
throughout the city;
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 195.031 to read as follows:
Section 195.031 Tax Exemption for
Qualifying Live Music Venues
(a) No tax shall be levied under this
chapter to any person paying an
admission charge to any premises or
location for which the Commissioner
has issued a certificate of exemption
pursuant to this Section; provided,
however, that the admission tax shall
be due for any and all admission
charges paid prior to the issuance of a
certificate of exemption, or paid after
the Commissioner has cancelled a certificate of exemption, or paid at any
time during which a cancellation of a
certificate of exemption could or
should have been in effect under any
one or more of paragraphs 1 through 6
of Subsection (g) of this Section.
(b) A premises or location is eligible for a certificate of exemption if:
(1) The premises or location has a
certificate of occupancy of fewer than
seven hundred (700) persons; and
(2) The person conducting or operating the premises or location or any
other person authorized by such person hosts or presents live music on at
least three (3) separate days per
week at the premises or location on a
regular schedule. For purposes of this
Section, “live music” is defined as an
active performance of music by an
individual or individuals who, at the
time of and during the performance,
creates music or engages in an audible form of artistic expression, other
than, or in addition to, any pre-record-

1686

October 19, 2011
ed music, for an audience through the
use or manipulation of voice, instruments, or electronic or computerized
equipment or formats; and
(3) The person or persons conducting or operating the premises or location or any other authorized person
hires one (1) or more musicians to
perform the equivalent of sixteen
(16) individual performances per
week at the premises or location.
Repeat performances by the same
individual or group shall each be
counted. Where performances are by
a duo, trio, band, ensemble or other
performing group, the number of individual performances shall be determined by multiplying the number of
performing group members by the
number of performances by the group;
and
(4) The premises or location is current with all license and tax requirements.
(c) A premises or location that has
obtained more than three (3) violations of law concerning public health,
public safety, noise, licensing, taxing
or permitting related to the ownership, possession, occupation, operation, use or maintenance of the location or premises in any twelve (12)
month period shall be ineligible for a
certificate of exemption for a period
of one year from the date of the last
violation. For purposes of this Section
a premises or location has obtained a
violation if there is a legally binding
final decision, order, citation, or other
finding of violation entered by any
court, adjudicative body or government agency against any legal
owner, operator, manager, or employee of the premises or location, or any
other person hosting or presenting
live music at the premises or location.
(d) Any person conducting or operating a premises or location seeking a
certificate of exemption under this
Section, who has not previously been
issued a certificate of exemption for
the same premises or location, shall
present to the Commissioner a copy of
the certificate of occupancy required
under paragraph (b)(1) of this Section, and shall submit a completed
application for the certificate of
exemption on forms and in a manner
prescribed by the Commissioner. The
application shall contain a certification that the conditions set forth in
Subsections (b) (2) and (3) of this
Section will be satisfied during the
period that the certificate of exemption is to be in effect, and a separate
certification that the premises or location is not ineligible under Subsection
(c) of this Section. The Commissioner
shall issue a certificate of exemption
for the premises or location, unless
the Commissioner finds that the eligibility requirements of Subsections
(b) and (c) of this Section cannot be
met. A certificate of exemption is nontransferable, shall be valid only with
respect to the original applicant, and
shall apply only to the premises or
location that is the subject of the
application.
(e) On a quarterly basis each person to whom a certificate of exemption has been issued shall report, on
forms prescribed by the Commissioner, information sufficient to verify
that during the corresponding quarter, the premises or location was in
compliance with the requirements of
this Section, including, but not limited to, the requirements in Subsections
(b) (2) and (3) of this Section, and
that the premises or location can con-

October 19, 2011
tinue to meet the requirements. The
Director shall establish by rule the
information required.
(f) Each person to whom a certificate of exemption has been issued
shall immediately notify the Commissioner if a premises or location for
which a certificate of exemption has
been issued fails to be eligible under
Subsection (c) of this Section, or fails
to be in compliance with any requirement contained in this Section or any
rule or regulation of the Commissioner implementing it, other than those
contained in Subsections (b) (2) or 3
of this Section.
(g) The Commissioner shall cancel
the certificate of exemption of a location or premises upon a determination
by the Commissioner:
(1) That a person secured the certificate of exemption by making a
false representation in the application for the certificate; or
(2) That the premises or location is
ineligible for a certificate of exemption under Subsection (c) of this Section; or
(3) That the premises or location is
not in compliance with any requirement contained in this Section or any
rule or regulation of the Commissioner implementing it other than the
requirements contained in Subsections (b) (2) or (3) of this Section; or
(4) That, during any quarterly period, the premises or location fails to
host or present live music on at least
80% of the number of days that the
premises is required to present live
music under Subsection (b) (2) during that quarterly period; or
(5) That, during any quarterly period, the premises or location fails to
hire musicians to perform at least
80% of the number of individual performances required under Subsection
(b) (3) during that quarterly period;
or
(6) That the person to whom the
certificate of exemption has been
issued no longer conducts or operates
the premises or location that is the
subject of the exemption.
A person whose certificate of
exemption has been cancelled may reapply for a certificate for the same
premises or location, but no re-application shall be approved unless the
person shows that the premises or
location is eligible under the requirements of this Section and all rules and
regulations of the Commissioner
implementing it at the time of the reapplication, and further, that the location or premises has been in compliance with Subsections (b) (2) and (3)
of this Section during the 30 day period prior to the re-application. Any person wishing to re-apply shall submit
the material required in Subsection
(d) of this Section, which material
shall be current as of the date of the
re-application, and, in addition, shall
submit all information required by
the Commissioner as established by
rule,
including
all
information
required to have been reported pursuant to Subsection (e) of this Section
during any period of time that any
previous certificate of exemption was
in effect.
(h) The Commissioner shall not
issue a certificate of exemption to any
person who is found by the Commissioner to have made a false representation on any application or re-application made under this Section.
(i) Any person to whom a certificate of exemption has been issued
shall promptly notify the Commissioner of any change of address. If the
Commissioner has cancelled a certificate of exemption, the Commissioner

The City Record
shall provide notice of the cancellation to the person to whom the certificate of exemption was issued by mailing such notice in writing to the
address of the person as last reported
to the Commissioner. Any person
whose certificate of exemption has
been cancelled may contest the cancellation by filing an appeal to the
Board of Review in accordance with
Section 195.16 of this Chapter.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1477-11.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance allocating
15% of Cleveland Casino Revenues
received by the City for use by Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, under the Ohio Constitution and ORC Chapter 5753, the State
levies a tax at the rate of 33% of the
casino operator’s gross casino revenue and the tax proceeds are distributed, in part, as follows: 1) 51% of the
tax is distributed among the 88 counties in proportion to their population
at the time of the distribution, and
Cleveland will receive 50% of the
Cuyahoga County share; and 2) 5% of
the tax is distributed to the host city,
like Cleveland, where the casino facility that generated such gross casino
revenue is located; and
Whereas, for purposes of this ordinance, “Cleveland Casino Revenues”
is Cleveland’s share of the tax on
gross casino revenue levied by the
State of Ohio and distributed to Cleveland in accordance with Article XV,
Section 6 of the Ohio Constitution and
Revised Code Chapter 5753; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Casino
Revenues received by the City shall
be deposited into the general fund
and 15% shall be allocated for use by
Cleveland City Council; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Cleveland Casino
Revenues received by the City shall
be deposited into the general fund
and fifteen percent (15%) shall be
allocated for use by Cleveland City
Council.
Section 2. That a copy of the memo
distributed at the Finance Committee
on October 12, 2011, is placed in File
No. 1477-11-A.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

1687

7
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1483-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement Ordinance No. 647-11, passed
May 16, 2011, by adding new Section 5;
and to renumber existing Section 5 to
new Section 6, relating to authorizing
the purchase, lease, or lease to purchase by requirement contract of various types of vehicles and apparatus
for various divisions in the Departments of Public Works and Public
Safety, among others.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 64711, passed May 16, 2011 is supplemented by adding new Section 5 to
read as follows:
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 2. That existing Section 5 of
Ordinance No. 647-11, passed May 16,
2011 is renumbered to new “Section 6”.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1484-11.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution opposing
any effort by the State of Ohio to take
over the collection of municipal
income taxes in Ohio, and urging our
State legislators to reject and oppose
any amendment to pending bills or
introduction of new legislation that
proposes to transfer collection and/or
control of municipal income taxes to
the State of Ohio Department of Taxation.
Whereas, income tax is the largest
source of revenue for all municipalities and any disruption or interference with the current collection
process will be harmful to the financial operations; and
Whereas, the prospect of State control of municipal income tax collection presents numerous administrative difficulties including, but not
limited to: how the State will administer Local tax ordinances; how retention of and access to tax records will

8
be handled; the timing and frequency
of distribution of collected revenues
would have a negative impact on cash
flow and financial stability of the
municipalities; the reporting of tax
collections to municipalities; collection of delinquent taxes and tracking
those persons not filing taxes; the
impact of planned budget and
staffing cuts; and the closing of the
Ohio
Department
of
Taxation’s
regional offices will hinder the ability of the Ohio Department of Taxation to undertake and properly perform such significant new responsibilities; and
Whereas, the State of Ohio is
infringing on the Home Rule Rights
of municipalities to self-govern as
stated in Section 7, Article XVII of the
Constitution of the State of Ohio; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its strong opposition to any
effort by the State of Ohio to take
over the collection of municipal
income taxes in Ohio, and urges our
legislators
to
reject
and
State
oppose any amendment to pending
bills or introduction of new legislation that proposes to transfer collection and/or control of municipal
income taxes to the State of Ohio
Department of Taxation.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized and directed to send a
certified copy of this resolution to
each member of the Ohio General
Assembly and Ohio Governor John
Kasich.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1493-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D2,
D2X, D3, D3A, and D6 Liquor Permit
to 618 Prospect Avenue, 2nd floor
only.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit from View Cleveland, LLC, Lauren Helbling Trustee
in Bankruptcy, 618 Prospect Avenue,
2nd floor only, Cleveland, Ohio 44115,
Permanent Number 9271909 to DMA
Level C, LLC, 618 Prospect Avenue,
2nd floor only, Cleveland, Ohio 44115,
Permanent Number 2215582; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or

The City Record
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
View Cleveland, LLC, Lauren Helbling Trustee in Bankruptcy, 618
Prospect Avenue, 2nd floor only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent
Number 9271909 to DMA Level C,
LLC, 618 Prospect Avenue, 2nd floor
only, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 2215582; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1494-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D2,
D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
850 Euclid Avenue, Suite 120.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit from Cleveland Bev-

1688

October 19, 2011
erage, LLC, 850 Euclid Avenue, Suite
120, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 1543280 to Bishoff Management, LLC, 850 Euclid Avenue, Suite
120, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 0720570; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
Whereas, the place for which the permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Cleveland Beverage, LLC, 850 Euclid
Avenue, Suite 120, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, Permanent Number 1543280 to
Bishoff
Management,
LLC,
850
Euclid Avenue, Suite 120, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
0720570; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

October 19, 2011
Res. No. 1495-11.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 3400
Carnegie Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Midtown Foods, Inc., 3400
Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 5928457;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Midtown Foods,
Inc., 3400 Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number
5928457; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1496-11.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C1 Liquor Permit at 13939 Lorain
Avenue and repealing Resolution No.
1153-11, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
C1 Liquor Permit to 13939 Lorain
Avenue by Resolution No. 1153-11
adopted by the Council on August 17,
2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to AJD Gas, LLC,
DBA Liberty Gas USA, 13939 Lorain
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 0003708 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1153-11, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 1125-11.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 807 East 156th Street to
Matthew
Adkins
and
Tenesha
Thomas.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:00 p.m. to meet on Monday, October 24, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

1689

9
THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

October 12, 2011
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, October 12,
2011, at 10:51 a.m. with Interim
Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Interim
Director
Langhenry, Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith, Cox, Flask, Rush,
Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Others:
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Interim Director, Office of Equal
Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 481-11.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on September 8,
2011 for Diving and Underwater
Inspection Services, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities, under the authority of Ordinance No. 359-11, passed May 9, 2011,
are rejected.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 482-11.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance Nos. 2380-02, 468-04, 185306 and 1329-08, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland on
December 16, 2002, April 26, 2004,
December 11, 2006 and October 20,
2008, respectively, and Board of Control Resolution No. 325-10, adopted
August 4, 2010, the City through its
Director of Port Control, entered
into Contract No. PS2010*251 with
Ehrenkrantz Eckstut & Kuhn Architects, P.C. (“Consultant”), to provide
professional services necessary to
prepare planning studies, for a period of two years, with two options to
renew for additional two year periods, for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 453-11, adopted September 14, 2011, the City, through its
Director of Port Control, entered
into a first modification to City Contract No. PS2010*251, revising the
scope of work and increasing the
compensation from an amount not to
exceed $700,000.00 to an amount not
to exceed $746,000.00; and
Whereas, the City has determined
it necessary to further revise the
scope of work to include additional
professional services necessary to
prepare drawings and other materials for the City’s TIGER Grant
application; and

The City Record

10
Whereas, the Consultant has proposed by its letter dated September
30, 2011 to perform the additional
work necessary for an amount of
$91,435.00; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into a second
modification to City Contract No.
PS2010*251 between the City of
Cleveland and Ehrenkrantz Eckstut
& Kuhn Architects, P.C. for additional professional services necessary to prepare drawings and other
materials for the City’s TIGER
Grant application as set forth in
Consultant’s letter dated September
30, 2011. The amount to be paid for
all services shall be increased by
$91,435.00 from $746,000.00 to a total
amount not to exceed $837,435.00.
Be it further resolved that the
amounts attributed to the following
subconsultants approved in Board of
Control Resolution No. 325-10, adopted August 4, 2010, are amended as
follows:
Subconsultant

Percentage
Amount

Van Auken Architects,
LLC
31.24% CSB/FBE/LPE
$261,658.00
Ralph C. Tyler, P.E.,
1.02% CSB/MBE
P.S., Inc.
$ 8,595.00
Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 325-10
not expressly amended by this resolution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 483-11.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance Nos. 930-95, 469-98 and 3272000, passed June 19, 1995, May 18,
1998 and June 12, 2000, respectively,
the firm of C & S Engineers, Inc.
(“Consultant”) is selected upon nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified persons
or firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control as the firm of consultants available to be employed by
contract to supplement the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City to provide
design and construction management services for the 2011-2012 continuation of Phase II of the Residential Sound Insulation Program,
for the Department of Port Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with C & S Engineers, Inc. for the
above-mentioned
services,
based
upon its proposal dated May 6, 2011,
which contract shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, shall provide
that the compensation to C & S
Engineers, Inc. for the services
authorized
shall
not
exceed
$2,156,192.00, and shall contain such
other provisions as the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.

October 19, 2011

Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that employment of the
following subconsultants by C & S
Engineers, Inc., is approved:
DBE%
Amount

Subcontractor

H2L1 Engineering, Inc.

5.33% DBE
$115,000.00

R. Engineering Team, LLC
10.43% DBE
$225,000.00
HMMH, Inc.

2.78% Non DBE
$ 60,022.00

Steven McQuillin & Associates
2.94% Non-DBE
$ 63,453.00
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 484-11.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Your Building Maint., Inc., for the
necessary items of janitorial maintenance and cleaning supplies, all
items, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control, for
a period of two years beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on August 18, 2011,
the
authority
of
Section
under
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would
amount
to
$84,480.00,
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services necessary,
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in an
amount not less than $5,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 485-11.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Aaron Landscaping, Inc., for
labor and materials necessary to
maintain or replace exterior landscaping and other site landscaping,
all items, for the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control,
for a period of two years, beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, received on August 24, 2011,
under
the
authority
of
Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity

1690

would amount to $231,214.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
and
materials
necessary,
labor
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in an
amount not less than $30,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such labor
and materials, whether more or less
than the estimated quantity, as may
be ordered under delivery orders
separately certified to the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractor
by
Landscaping,
Inc.
is
Aaron
approved:
Subcontractor

Jands Group

CSB/MBE/FBE %
Amount
23.78% CSB/MBE
$55,000.00

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 486-11.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of ADB Airfield Solutions, LLC, for
the necessary items of electrical
parts and equipment, Items 1, 2, 4
and 6, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control, for
a period of two years beginning
with the date of execution of a contract, with two one-year options to
renew, received on August 18, 2011,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
323-11, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on May 2, 2011,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$545,000.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Port Control is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services
necessary, which contract shall provide for an initial order, the cost of
which shall be certified to the contract in an amount not less than
$30,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 487-11.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Genesis Lamp Corporation, for
the necessary items of electrical
parts and equipment, Items 3, 5 and

October 19, 2011
7, for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of two years beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
with two one-year options to renew,
received on August 18, 2011, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 32311, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on May 2, 2011, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to $210,000.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services necessary,
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in an
amount not less than $15,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 488-11.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Consolidated Electric Distribution, Inc. d/b/a Leader Electric Supply Co., for the necessary items of
electrical parts and equipment, Item
8, for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control, for a
period of two years beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
with two one-year options to renew,
received on August 18, 2011, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 32311, passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland on May 2, 2011, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to $49,000.00, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services necessary,
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in an
amount not less than $3,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 489-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and

The City Record
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 115-01-029 located at 824 East
143rd Street in Ward 10; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Shirley Seawright, abutting/adjacent landowner, have proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 10 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Shirley Seawright
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 115-01-029 located
at 824 East 143rd Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 490-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 125-31-026 located at 6819 Temple
Ave. in Ward 12; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Hope Williams, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and

1691

11
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Hope Williams
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 125-31-026 located
at 6819 Temple Ave., according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 491-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No.
007-07-109
located
at
3609
Chatham Avenue in Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas,
Wilson
&
Eulialia
Reyes, abutting/adjacent landowners, have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is

12
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of
Cleveland,
with
Wilson
&
Eulialia Reyes for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
007-07-109
located
at
3609
No.
Chatham Avenue, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 492-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 005-23-132 (Northerly part) located at 2062 West 98th St. in Ward 16;
and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Robert A. & Gay V.
Puchmajer,
abutting/adjacent
landowners, have proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 16 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Robert A. & Gay
V. Puchmajer for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00523-132 (Northerly part) located at
2062 West 98th St., according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,

The City Record
Cox, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 493-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 005-23-132 (Southerly part) located at 2062 West 98th St. in Ward 16;
and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Cudell
Improvement,
Whereas,
Inc., abutting/adjacent landowner,
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel for yard
expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 16 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Cudell Improvement, Inc. for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00523-132 (Southerly part) located at
2062 West 98th St., according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

October 19, 2011
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2011
10/28/11 – 11/3/11
Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.
94

95

96

EE

EE

EE

Administrative
Manager
Building
Stationary
Engineer

Exam
Type

N/C

Open

Business
Process
Analyst

N/C

97

EE

Chief Architect

N/C

98

EE

Deputy
Commissioner
of Environment

N/C

99

EE

Information Tech
Systems Security
Officer
Open

100 WR

Machinist

101 EE

Manager of
General
Maintenance

N/C

Misdemeanor
Investigator

N/C

103 EE

Public Health
Nurse III

N/C

104 EE

Recreation
Center Mgr

N/C

105 WR

Recreation
Instructor I

Open

102 EE

Open

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the

1692

106 EE

Systems Analyst Open

54a WR

Asst School
Building
Custodian

55a WR

School Building
Custodian
Open

Open

The City Record

October 19, 2011
PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY

FILING OF APPLICATION

Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the
following:

Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3,
2011.

Lease - from rental agency.
Lease - from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

NOTE:
APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.

NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

Car insurance documents.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.

Under administrative direction, is
responsible for planning, managing,
coordinating, and administering all
activities and personnel of such staff
positions as administration, citizen
participation, research, and finance,
and supervises such personnel as are
assigned to specific functions in the
performance of the necessary duties.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.

Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 94
ADMINISTRATIVE
(NON COMP)

MANAGER

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON-COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $24,974.46 - $86,764.70 per year.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree is
required. Four years of full time paid
management or administrative experience is required. (Substitution: Two
years of experience may substitute
for each year of college education
lacking. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with

1693

13
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 95
STATIONARY
BUILDING
NEER (OPEN)

ENGI-

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.14 - $19.66 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATION WILL BE
AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3,
2011.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
TION

EXPERIENCE

EXAMINA-

NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, maintains boiler
room and engine room equipment in a
public
building.
Maintains
and
repairs mechanical and other equipment. Operates power plant and
engine room equipment in a public
building. Performs related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF

The City Record

14
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Two years of full time paid
experience in building maintenance
as a Third Class Stationary Engineer
is required. A valid State of Ohio
Third Class Stationary Engineer’s
License is required. A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License is required. A
valid
Universal
Refrigeration
License is required. Should have basic
computer skills.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, and resumes must be
presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted if copies
are not submitted with application at
time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 96
BUSINESS
PROCESS
(NON-COMP)

ANALYST

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a Non-Competitive examination for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $55,000.00 - $95,000.00 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL POSITION IS FILLED.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL BE
TAKEN
UNTIL
POSITION
IS
FILLED.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
ALL
INFORMATION
CONAND
TAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

October 19, 2011
ommendations.
Develops
ad-hoc
reports and analyses in response to
business unit requests. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Oversees business process and workflow analysis by completing and managing process improvement activities
within a function that will have a significant impact on cost, service, and
forecast accuracy. Manages the scope
of
improvements
and
resource
requirements.
Escalates
issues
regarding service and timelines. Creates performance metrics for programs. Facilitates communication
across many functional groups to
ensure collaboration and efficiency.
Supports and advises on standardization and streamlining of processes
wherever possible and appropriate in
line with best managements practices
to ensure accuracy and completeness
of the process and procedural and
technical documentation. Assists in
the roll-out of key business initiatives
by meeting with stakeholders as well
as reviewing and documenting business and functional requirements.
Also manages the periodic review of
planning parameters to balance customer service, product, employee, and
financial
objectives.
Identifies
issues/inconsistencies that impact
the quality and integrity of services
delivered, makes recommendations to
correct issues, and manages the solutions to the issues. Ensures that all
business and service requirements
are fully defined and measured. Collaborates with managers/supervisors
on internal measurements of performance. Facilitates ongoing performance review meetings with management teams to review metrics in
regards to success. Creates and/or
revises processes and associated documentation
including
process
flows/modeling, procedural guides,
SIPOC models, RACIs, schematics,
templates, diagrams, and charts.
Assists in preparation for system
deployments including pre-requisite
process and policy changes, change
management, data preparation, and
user training. Continuously reviews
forecasts to understand how trends
and/or projections will affect future
business needs. Recommends new
policies and/or policy changes as
needed to maintain clear expectations amongst stakeholders. Collects
and analyzes data to identify root
cause of problems. Delivers presentations and training courses including
measurement, analysis, improvement,
and control. Performs cost and benefit analyses. Assists business office
personnel and program/financial
managers with the review and evaluation of end-to-end business processes/systems and in the development of
associated process improvement rec-

1694

A High School Diploma or a GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in Business specializing in operations management, business administration, or
quantitative analysis, Finance, or
Business-related field from an accredited four-year college or university is
required. Three years of full time
paid experience in one or more of the
following: Business analytics (use of
data, statistical and quantitative
analysis, explanatory and predictive
modeling, and fact-based management to drive decision making and
analytical problem solving), business, requirements analysis and solution design, and business process
analysis and redesign. As part of the
three years, must have documented
experience with project management
methodologies, process improvement
tools (e.g., Lean, Six Sigma) or statistics as well as experience in the
implementation of business process
mapping and charting software and
documentation management process
as well as business requirements definition and management in support of
IT initiatives. (Substitution: One year
of experience may substitute for each
year of college education lacking.) A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Experience utilizing an
enterprise reporting tool (e.g., Business Objects or Cognos) to extract
and analyze data from corporate
information systems is preferred.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 97
CHIEF ARCHITECT (NON-COMP)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON-COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $23,647.11 - $98,838.00 per year.

October 19, 2011
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATION WILL BE
AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL POSITION IS FILLED.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL BE
ACCEPTED UNTIL POSITION IS
FILLED.

The City Record
a Registered Architect or Engineer
and an interim or full-fledged Plans
Examiner. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required.
NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, and resumes must be
presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted if copies
are not submitted with application at
time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 98

EXAMINATION INFORMATION

DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF ENVIRONMENT (NON COMP)

TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in resume.
TYPE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under administrative direction, perform architectural services required
in the construction, alteration, and
addition to buildings. Plans, supervises, and directs assigned personnel.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam). Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
ARCHITECTURE – A High School
Diploma or GED is required. A Bachelor’s Degree in Architecture from an
accredited four year college or university is required. Five years of full
time paid experience as a registered
Architect is required. Must be a registered Architect in the State of Ohio. A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required.
BUILDING AND HOUSING - A High
School Diploma or GED is required. A
Bachelor’s Degree in Architecture or
Engineering from an accredited four
year college or university is required.
Five years of full time paid experience as a registered Architect or
Engineer is required. Experience as a
Plans Examiner is preferred. Must be

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON-COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $26,273.96 - $80,090.83 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATION WILL BE
AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL POSITION IS FILLED.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION

15
tical inspection data. Assists in the
development of enforcement initiatives. Assists in the preparation of the
annual budget funds, personnel,
materials, and time. Provides professional advice to general public, contractors, and business operators. Prepares required activity and enforcement reports. Performs other jobrelated duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Engineering, Environmental Science,
Public Administration, or a closely
related field from a four (4) year
accredited college or university is
required, a Master’s Degree is preferred. Five (5) years of full time paid
progressively responsible environmental construction or technical management experience is required, two
years of which must be in a supervisory position. A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s License is required. A State
of Ohio Registered Sanitarian Certificate is preferred. Must have excellent
computer skills. Must be able to lift
and carry at least 50 pounds.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.

INFORMATION TECHNICIAN SYSTEMS SECURITY OFFICER (OPEN)

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 99

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $30,215.00 - $78,448.32 per year.

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
FILING OF APPLICATION
Under direction of the Commissioner
of Environment, provides daily management and supervision to divisional staff including district supervisors
and program managers. Evaluates
potential and current employees.
Develops and implements training
materials. Ensures that all work conforms to divisional policies and procedures. Generates and analyzes statis-

1695

Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION - APPLICATION WILL BE

The City Record

16
AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3,
2011.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
EVALUATYPE:
EXPERIENCE
TION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Designs, develops, and implements
security changes and enhancements
to the Information Technology (IT)
computing environments citywide. Is
responsible for determining appropriate security measures and creating
policies and procedures that monitor
and
control
access
to
system
resources and data. Oversees the
establishment, implementation, and
adherence to policies and procedures
that guide and support the provision
of information security services. Conducts risk assessments and risk
analyses to help the organization
develop security standards and procedures that support strategic, tactical,
and operation objectives on a costeffective basis. Makes recommendations on appropriate personnel as
well as physical and technical security controls. Manages the information
security incident reporting program
and participates in resolving problems with security violations. Is
responsible for the content and delivery of information security seminars
and training classes. Coordinates the
communication of information security awareness to all members of the
organization. Certifies that IT systems meet predetermined security
requirements
citywide.
Conducts
security audits. Assesses and reviews
security plans, policies and procedures of all City departments/divisions and related entities. Develops
and implements a year-round inservice training program. Performs
other job related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science, Information Technology, Engineering, Accounting, or related field from an accredited four year
college or university is required. Two
years of full time paid experience
with the configuration, monitoring, or
security of network, internet, or email
applications in a Windows, Netware,
and/or Unix environment is required.
(Substitution: One year of experience
in Information Technology may substitute for each year of college education lacking.) A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s License is required. Must be
able to lift and carry a minimum of 30
pounds. Must possess excellent interpersonal and written communication
skills. The following areas of experience are highly desired: Encryption,
firewalls, Intrusion Detection Systems, Intrusion Prevention Systems,
Virtual Private Networks, Web filtering, IT forensic analysis, and the
principles and use of identification,
authentication, and authorization;
Knowledge of security hardware and
software products that comply with
current industry standards; Hands-on
experience with major security platforms for certification authority,
security management products, and
tools; Monitoring network and systems management processes and
operational procedures; Web hosting;
Microsoft Exchange Server. Certification as an Information Systems and
Security Professional of Information
Systems Auditor is highly desired.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

October 19, 2011
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M ON
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 3, 2011.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
ALL
INFORMATION
CONAND
TAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, operates lathes,
shapers, drill presses, and other
machine tools. Assembles, installs,
and repairs machinery of all kinds.
Performs related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. One year of full time paid
experience in a machine shop is
required. Must be able to operate various hand, power, and machine shop
tools. Must be able to work in confined spaces. A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s License is required. Must be
able to lift and carry a minimum of 50
pounds.

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 100
MACHINIST (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $15.83 - $21.86 per hour.

1696

NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the

October 19, 2011
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

The City Record
fications. Assigns personnel to projects. Maintains records related to
maintenance projects. Inspects project work to ensure compliance with
specifications. Estimates construction and material costs. Performs
other job-related duties as required.
Follows all operations and safety
policies and safe work practices.
Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and
demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.) Wears and properly
utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 101
MANAGER OF GENERAL MAINTENANCE (NON-COMPETITIVE)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON-COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $23,647.11 - $75,806.04 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATION WILL BE
AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3,
2011.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High school Diploma or GED is
required. Two years of full time paid
management experience in facility
maintenance is required. Skilled
trade experience is preferred. Should
be familiar with computers, Microsoft
Office Suites and Ellipse Work Management System is preferred. A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must own or have access to
a properly insured vehicle. Must be
able to lift and carry 75 pounds with
the use of equipment or the help of
others.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general direction, plans and
schedules major water treatment and
pumping facilities maintenance projects. Supervises the work performed
by project workers. Reviews major
maintenance project plans and speci-

APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 102
MISDEMEANOR
(NON-COMP)

INVESTIGATOR

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON-COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $46,152.31 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room119.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION - FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL POSITION IS FILLED.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

1697

17
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, processes citizen
complaints. Interviews complainants
and witnesses. Creates computerized
case files. Researches criminal histories and prosecutor complaint histories and reviews police reports. Notifies citizens regarding decisions and
dispositions. Types and mails correspondence. Prepares and assists in
the preparation of reports and relevant forms. Performs any follow up
on cases. Staffs satellite offices when
necessary. Serves as mediation officer as needed. Maintains records,
reports, and supplies. Performs other
job-related duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe work practices. Attends
and participates in operations and
safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of
competence may be determined by
exam). Wears and properly utilizes
safety equipment in accordance with
Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required, an Associate’s Degree in
Criminal Justice, Sociology, or Psychology from an accredited college or
university is preferred. One year of
full time paid experience in customer
relations,
community-based
programs, or a government setting is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required. Must be
computer proficient.
NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 103
PUBLIC HEALTH NURSE III (NONCOMPETITIVE)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON-COMPETITIVE

The City Record

18
examination for the above mentioned
classification.

experience in community health nursing is preferred. A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s License is required.

SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $18.80 - $24.49 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION - FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3,
2011.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M ON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

NOTE: Applications must be returned
in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses, certificates, and resumes
must be presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted
if copies are not submitted with application at time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 104
RECREATION CENTER MANAGER
(NON-COMPETITIVE)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of a NON-COMPETITIVE
examination for the above mentioned
classification.
SALARY

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.

The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $32,500.00 - $69,660.19 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION

NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under the supervision of the Assistant Director of Nursing, renders professional nursing services in the clinics or in the field by collecting data,
making nursing judgments and planning, implementing and evaluating
nursing interventions for a caseload
of clients. Directs activities of Public
Health Nurse II and I. Performs related duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.

Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMAINATION - FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3,
2011.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. An Associate’s Degree in
Nursing or a Diploma from an Accredited Nursing program is required, a
Bachelor’s Degree is preferred. One
year of full time paid experience as
either a Registered Nurse or a
Licensed Practical Nurse is required,

Under administrative direction, performs recreation program and activity planning, supervision, and implementation at a City recreation facility. Organizes programs and activities. Supervises the activities per-

DUTIES OF THE POSITION

1698

October 19, 2011
formed by recreation staff. Recruits
and trains recreation staff and volunteers. Promotes program activities
and program participation within the
community. Prepares operational and
other reports. Operates and supervises facility maintenance. Coordinates
maintenance with Property Management. Assigns tasks to employees and
schedules recreation programs and
activities of a recreation center. Coordinates facility’s programs and activities with those of other recreation
facilities. Orients, trains, and evaluates employees under immediate
supervision. Prepares facility’s budget and monitors expenditures. Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may be
determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment in
accordance with Divisional policy at
all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. Three years of full time
paid experience in recreation programs is required. (Substitution: A
Bachelor’s Degree from a four-year
accredited college or university may
be substituted for the experience.) A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. Must complete the Pool and
Spa Management Course and acquire
CPR Certification and First Aid Certification within one year of appointment. The following are preferred:
previous experience in recreation programming, supervising, training,
organizing, promoting, and/or coordinating; previous experience managing a recreation facility, in program
development, in the utilization of
recruitment techniques; demonstrated progressive responsibility in a professional setting.
NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, and resumes must be
presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted if copies
are not submitted with application at
time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 105
RECREATION
(OPEN)

INSTRUCTOR

I

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $10.00 - $16.94 per hour.

October 19, 2011
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATION WILL BE
AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3,
2011.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, has charge of the
organization and direction of recreational activities of a playground or
recreation center. Performs other jobrelated duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety policies and
safe work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety
training classes and demonstrates
competence (demonstration of competence may be determined by exam.)
Wears and properly utilizes safety
equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is required. (SPORTS) –
Experience in planning, developing,
recruiting,
implementing,
and
instructing youth/adults in various
sports and other related programs is
required (volunteer experience will
be considered). (ARTS) – Experience
in planning, developing recruiting,
implementing,
and
instructing
youth/adults in various visual art
classes is required. (CAMP) – Experience in planning, developing, recruiting, implementing, and instructing
youth/adults in various organized
programs,
outdoor
programs
required. (COMPUTER) – Experience
in planning, developing, recruiting,
implementing,
and
instructing
youth/adults in various activities and
other programs is required. Must be
able to instruct computer programs
(i.e.: Windows XP Pro and the Internet).
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the

The City Record
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, and resumes must be
presented at the time of filing. . Applications may not be accepted if copies
are not submitted with application at
time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 106
SYSTEMS ANALYST (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination for
the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland
is $20,800.00 - $60,010.77 per year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION - APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL 4:30
P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3,
2011.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE:
EXPERIENCE
EVALUATION: Applicant’s eligibility will be
determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.

19
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, performs computer systems design, implementation,
management, and/or control tasks.
Assists in, or performs, special project work as assigned. Troubleshoots
computer system problems and provides other technical assistance as
needed. Performs other job-related
duties as required. Follows all operations and safety policies and safe
work practices. Attends and participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration of competence
may be determined by exam.) Wears
and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional
policy at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE AS
FOLLOWS:
(A) - A High School Diploma or GED
is required. An Associate’s Degree in
Computer Science or closely related
field from an accredited college, university, or vocational school is
required. Two years of relevant full
time paid experience in the set-up and
configuration of personal computers
in a networking environment (Novell
and/or Microsoft NT) is required.
(Substitution: Two years of experience may substitute for each year of
college education lacking.) A valid
State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required. (B) Water (Control Systems) – A High School Diploma or
GED is required. An Associate’s
Degree in Computer Science or closely related field from an accredited college, university or vocational school
is required. One year of relevant full
time
paid
experience
in
the
design/set-up, configuration, and
maintenance of process computer control systems is required. (Substitution: One year of related experience
may substitute for each year of college education lacking.) A valid State
of Ohio Driver’s License is required.
Instrumentation Society of Automation (ISA) certification is preferred.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing
fee. Applicants who are currently
employed in this position with the
City of Cleveland are exempt. However, that when an applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on
the basis of age, education or failure
to meet other minimum entrance
requirements, the fee paid by such
applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.

NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the time
of filing application.

NOTE: All copies of diplomas, licenses, certificates, and resumes must be
presented at the time of filing. Applications may not be accepted if copies
are not submitted with application at
time of filing.

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME. LACK OF HONESTY WILL
RESULT IN IMMEDIATE REMOVAL
FROM THE ELIGIBLE LIST.

NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.

1699

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

The City Record

20
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 54A
ASSISTANT
SCHOOL
BUILDING
CUSTODIAN CLEVELAND BOARD
OF EDUCATION (OPEN)

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open competitive
examination for the above-mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by the Cleveland Board of Education is $16.91 to
$19.46 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011.

NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLAR) filing
fee. However, employees of the Cleveland Board of Education are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C. MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 55A
SCHOOL BUILDING CUSTODIAN
CLEVELAND BOARD OF EDUCATION (OPEN)

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open competitive
examination for the above-mentioned
classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by the Cleveland Board of Education is $24.29 $27.85 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision of the custodian,
performs unskilled and semi-skilled
maintenance tasks related to the care
and operation of school facilities;
monitors heating, ventilation and air
conditioning systems to provide temperatures appropriate to the season
and ensures economical use of fuel,
water and electricity; operates boiler,
pumps and related equipment under
the supervision of the custodian
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CLEVELAND BOARD OF EDUCATION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. Must have a good work
record and good attendance/punctuality. Vocational Custodial Service
Training is preferred. Must hold a
current High Pressure Boiler Operator’s License or Steam Engineers
License from the State of Ohio. A
valid State of Ohio Driver’s License is
required.
VETERANS CREDIT: Additional
points are given to a passing grade on
an Open competitive examination in
compliance with the Rules of the
Cleveland Board of Education.

Application must be made on the regular application form available at the
Office of the Civil Service Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 119.
No other form will be accepted.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR PICK-UP IN THE CIVIL
SERVICE OFFICE TO APPLY TO
TAKE THE CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATION – APPLICATIONS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FROM 8:30 A.M. ON
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 UNTIL
4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011.

October 19, 2011
grounds in a neat and approved manner. Supervises, instructs, and assists
other employees in performing duties
efficiently and economically. Performs other job-relate duties as
required.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CLEVELAND BOARD OF EDUCATION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A third-class stationary
engineer’s license issued by the State
of Ohio is required. A valid State of
Ohio Driver’s License is required.
VETERANS CREDIT: Additional
points are given to a passing grade on
an Open competitive examination in
compliance with the Rules of the
Cleveland Board of Education.
NOTE: Applicants will be required to
pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLAR) filing
fee. However, employees of the Cleveland Board of Education are exempt.
However, that when an applicant is
disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of age, education or
failure to meet other minimum
entrance requirements, the fee paid
by such applicant shall be refunded to
such applicant upon the applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination. Any applicant who can provide
proof of unemployment, public assistance, or indigence is exempt from the
filing fee. A copy of such proof must
be included with the application.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
ROBERT BENNETT,
President
October 19 2011

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M. ON
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2011

THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.

Calendar No. 11-180: 15222 Waterloo
Road (Ward 11)
Samira Abuaun, owner, appeals
for a use, occupancy permit, for a
gas station located on an irregular
shaped corner parcel in a C2 Local
Retail Business District and subject
to the provisions under Sections
349.07 (a) and (b), accessory offstreet parking spaces, driveways
and maneuvering areas shall be
properly graded with hard surface
for drainage and shall be provided
with wheel or bumper guards; and
a permit is required for signage in
accordance with Section 350.04 of
the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.

EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Performs all necessary tasks personally or with the aid of such employees
as are provided. Is responsible for the
proper care, operation, heating, cleaning, maintenance, and repair of any
school building in the Cleveland City
School District to which he/she is
assigned. Supervises and instructs
other employees in the proper performance of their duties and to control
all assigned school property. Operates, maintains, and makes repairs to
boilers, fans, motors, and other equipment to be found in a school building.
Cleans and maintains buildings,
lawn, shrubbery, walks, and play-

1700

9:30 A.M.

Calendar No. 11-184: 6310 Brookpark
Road (Ward 13)
Lewis and Jeremy Mitchell, owners, and Greg Deimling, tenant,
appeal to establish use as a tattoo
parlor in an existing one-story structure located on a 60' x 250' lot in
Semi-Industry and General Retail
Districts; subject to the limitations
under Section 347.12(b) no such use

October 19, 2011
shall be within 1,000 feet of a residential district or church and the
proposed use for tattooing is within
1,000 feet of a residence district to
the south on Velma Avenue and
1,000 feet of Calvary Chapel at 6770
Brookpark Road. (“The calculation
and application of distance requirements of separation of uses shall
consider uses and districts across
the city’s boundary if the city and
bordering jurisdiction have entered
into an agreement whereby each
will consider uses and districts
across
the
common
boundary.”
Zoning
Code
Section
Cleveland
331.04) The proposed use for tattooing is within 1,000 feet of adult
entertainment use located at 5141
Pearl Road contrary to Section
347.12(c) that prohibits such use to
be established within 1,000 feet of
an adult use as defined in Section
347.07 of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 11-185: 2721 East 90th
Street (Ward 6)
Miceli-Lograsso Development Company, owner, appeals for addition to
an existing food processing plant
located on acreage in a C1 General
Retail Business District, for which
an existing, legally permitted, nonconforming use of building or land
may be continued but no enlargement or expansion shall be permitted except as a variance under the
terms of Chapter 329 and no substitution or other change in the nonconforming use except by special
permit issued if the Board of Zoning Appeals finds after public hearing that such substitution or change
is no more harmful or objectionable
than the previous nonconforming
use in floor or other space occupied,
in volume of trade or production, in
kind of goods sold or produced, in
daily hours or other period of use,
in the type or number of persons to
occupy or to be attracted to the
premises or any other characteristic
of the new use as compared with the
previous use as stated in the Cleveland Zoning Code under Section
359.01.
Calendar No. 11-186: 2726 East 90th
Street (Ward 6)
Miceli-Lograsso Development Company, owner, appeals to construct
two (2) buildings proposed to be on
acreage located in General Retail
and
General
Industry
Districts
between East 90th Street and Evarts
Avenue; subject to Section 359.01 the
proposed project requires the Board
of Zoning Appeals approval, if the
Board finds after public hearing
that the expansion is no more harmful or objectionable than the previous nonconforming use in floor or
other space occupied, in volume of
trade or production, in kind of goods
sold or produced, in daily hours or
other period of use, in the type or
number of persons to occupy or to
be attracted to the premises or any
other characteristic of the new use
as compared with the previous use.
Calendar No. 11-187: 2335 Green Road
(Ward 10)
Gloria Robinson, owner, appeals
to erect a 16' x 20' one-story frame,
detached accessory garage on a
107.15' x 460' lot located in an A1
One-Family District and a setback
of 131 feet is proposed contrary to

The City Record
230 feet that is required to
provisions under Section
for accessory buildings to
ed on the rear half of the

21
meet the
337.23(a)
be locatlot.

Calendar No. 11-188: 17138 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 19)
Kathleen McBride Plum, owner,
and KeyBank National Association,
tenant, appeal to replace an existing parking lot on a 92.18' x 148.04'
lot in a C2 Local Retail Business
District; and under Sections 352.08-12
a six (6) foot wide landscaping
frontage strip providing a minimum
of fifty percent (50%) year round
opacity is required where the parking lot abuts Rocky River Drive and
Ferndale Avenue and an eight (8)
foot wide landscaped transition strip
providing a minimum of seventyfive percent (75%) year round opacity is required where the parking lot
abuts the residential district on Ferndale Avenue; and the restrictions
under Section 357.05(b) provide that
in the rear third of the lot, no parking spaces are permitted in a triangle formed by a point starting at the
established setback building line of
Ferndale Avenue and proceeding at
a forty-five degree angle to the side
property line on Ferndale; and the
under
Sections
limitations
357.07(a)(13)(14) prohibit parking
within an established ten (10) foot
setback along Rocky River Drive,
and Section 349.07(b) in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances requires
that access and maintenance of offstreet parking spaces have bumper
guards located so that no part of a
parked vehicle extends beyond such
parking space.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 2011
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, October
17, 2011, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 11-170: 11607 Euclid
Avenue
Maximum Accessible Housing of
Ohio appealed to construct a four
(4) story apartment building in a D2
Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 11-172: 12645 Lorain
Avenue
The Salvation Army appealed to
erect a double faced projecting sign
on a one-story building in a C2 General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 11-174: 1306 West 112th
Street
Valerie Totire appealed to erect a
wooden, open platform front porch
to a two family dwelling in a B1
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 11-123: 9025 Lorain
Avenue
The 9019-9025 Lorain Avenue LLC
appealed to rebuild and re-establish
use of a motor vehicle service
garage in a Local Retail Business
District; subject to conditions.

1701

Calendar No. 11-141: 3829 Lorain
Avenue
Ellen Mueller, owner, and Alfonso
Lugo, tenant, appealed to establish
use for piercing and tattooing in a
D3 Local Retail Business District.
following
The
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 11-175: 17722 Grovewood Avenue
Brenda Armstrong-Gary appealed
to use as a Type A day care the
first floor of a two family dwelling
in a C1 Multi-Family District.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 11-173: 12307 St. Clair
Avenue postponed to November 7,
2011.
Calendar No. 11-32: 961 Jefferson
Avenue postponed to October 31,
2011.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on October 10, 2011 were
adopted and approved on October 17,
2011.
following
The
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 11-165: 2039-59 West
11th Place
Nathan Dent Development, LLC,
owner, and Jessie Grant, prospective
purchaser, appealed to construct
four (4) townhouses on consolidated
parcels in a C1 Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 11-166: 7920-8014 Golden Avenue
Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation and Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority appealed
to construct six (6) two-story townhouses and four (4) one-story flats
in a C1 Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 11-167: 8113 Central
Avenue
Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation and Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority appealed
to construct nine (9) two-story townhouses and six (6) one-story flats in
a C1 Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 11-168: 8205-35 Central
Avenue
Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation and Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority appealed
to construct nine (9) two-story townhouses and six (6) one-story flats in
a C1 Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 11-169: 8001-8105 Central Avenue
Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation and Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority appealed
to construct nine (9) two-story townhouses and six (6) one-story flats in
a C1 Multi-Family District.
The following appeal dismissed
by the Board on October 10, 2011
was reinstated on October 17, 2011:
Calendar No. 11-148: 1222 Prospect
Avenue
RTN Limited Partners, owner, and
David Parker, prospective tenant,

The City Record

22
appealed to establish use as a bar
with live entertainment in an E5
General Retail Business District.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on August 29, 2011 was adopted and approved subject to conditions:
Calendar No. 11-98: 4201 Jennings
Road
Angelo Martin appealed to use
property for outdoor storage of used
construction materials in a Residence Industry District; subject to
conditions.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
October 12, 2011
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-72-11.
RE: Appeal of Jacqueline Beatrice
Parries, Owner of the R-2 Residential — Non-transient; Apartments
(Shared Egress) Two Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 7917 Linwood Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
UNAUTHORIZED/ILLEGAL
USE,
dated February 18, 2011 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to present a plan to the City and
obtain permits for any proposed
improvements with time to be allotted by the City for those improvements; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-86-11.
RE: Appeal of Marietta Allen,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
11923 Mt. Overlook Avenue from a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated November 11,
2010 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which

to obtain permits and six (6) months
in which to complete abatement of
the
violations;
the
property
is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-87-11.
RE: Appeal of James A. Davis,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 10615 Hulda
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
ORDER
dated January 26, 2011 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require the
Appellant to obtain permits within
thirty (30) days and to grant the
Appellant six (6) months in which
to abate the violations with additional time upon approval of the
Board of Building Standards and
Building Appeals; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-91-11.
RE: Appeal of Kystyna Beserman,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
6810 Camden Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated March 11, 2011
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to dispose of the property or present
a plan to the Department of Building and Housing for continual use
of the property; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-93-11.
RE: Appeal of Adam R. Koriatek,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
One
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
6813 Forman Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated March 1, 2011 of
the Director of the Department of

1702

October 19, 2011
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations with the yard work to be done
within two (2) weeks as quickly as
possible; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-94-11.
RE: Appeal of Keith K. Duffield,
Owner of the MXD Mixed Uses —
Multiple Uses In One Building Two
Story Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry
Veneer Property located on the
premises known as 4364 Pearl Road
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated July 10,
2009 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant six (6) months in which
to complete abatement of the violations, noting satisfactory progress,
but that HVAC and plumbing permits have to be obtained, and that
the existing permits will be extended as required for six (6) months;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded y Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-95-11.
RE: Appeal of Bolivar Garage
LLC, Owner of the S-1 Storage —
Moderate
Hazard
(Combustibles)
Property located on the premises
known as 1124 Bolivar Avenue from
a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated January 10, 2011 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-96-11.
RE: Appeal of Lawrence Calloway, Owner of the Residential

October 19, 2011
Property located on the premises
known as 15618 School Avenue from
a LIMITATION ON THE PERMITS,
dated March 29, 2011 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-96-11 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-97-11.
Appeal
of
Lamont
Ellis,
RE:
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 971 East 130th
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated July 30, 2009 of the Director
of the Department of Public Safety,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and six (6) months
in which to complete abatement of
the violations, the property is to
remain secured and the grounds
debris-free during that period of
time; the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for superviand
any
required
further
sion
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-98-11.
RE: Appeal of Vicktoria Kotov,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 3688 East 118th
Street from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR/EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated February 22,
2011 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-98-11 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-99-11.
RE: Appeal of Brandon Gregg,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
767 East 90th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated September 3,
2010 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-99-11 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the appellant.

The City Record
Docket A-101-11.
RE: Appeal of 9019-9025 Lorain
Avenue LLC, Owner of the S-2 Storage
—
Low
Hazard
(Non-Combustibles) One Story Masonry Property located on the premises known
as 9019 Lorain Road from a NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
INTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated March 23,
2011 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
Appellant’s appeal request due to
improper procedure and to REMAND
the property to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-102-11.
RE: Appeal of Catherine Surratt,
Owner of the One Dwelling Units
Single-Family
Residence
One
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
4660 East 174th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated February 4, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-103-11.
RE: Appeal of Larry Craig, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two & One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 8901 Easton
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated January 28, 2011 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits, secure the property and upgrade the grounds and
maintain them, and to complete
rehabilitation of the property within six (6) months; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

1703

23
Docket A-104-11.
RE: Appeal of Larry Craig, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two & One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 3370 East 125th
from
a
CONDEMNATION
Street
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated June 1, 2010 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to dismiss Docket A-104-11, noting that the Appellant does not own the property.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-105-11.
RE: Appeal of Larry Craig, Owner
of the One Dwelling Unit SingleFamily Residence Two Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 11618 Havel Avenue from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN STRUCTURE, dated March 24,
2010 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and four (4)
months for completion of the work,
noting that the grounds are to be
groomed, cleaned, and the property
properly secured, the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-118-11.
RE: Appeal of Raseem Palker,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
505 East 126th Street from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated September 10,
2010 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
No action.
*    *    *
Docket A-194-11.
RE: Appeal of Magda Matos,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
3004 Woodbridge Avenue from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated May
17, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of

The City Record

24
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant six (6) months in which
to complete abatement of all the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for superviand
any
required
further
sion
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and nine (9)
months in which to complete the
construction by abating the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

*    *    *

*    *    *

Docket A-211-11.
RE: Appeal of David M. Dotson,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 1846 East
93rd Street from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER, dated April 1, 2011 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal and grant the Appellant thirty (30) days in which to present a
plan to the Department of Building
and
Housing
for
rehabilitation
required to remove the Condemnation Order. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

Docket A-266-11.
RE: Appeal of Larry Craig, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two & One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 12505 Forest
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated March 30, 2010 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain all the required permits
and ninety (90) days in which to
complete abatement of the violations, and to immediately remove
the satellite dishes; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

*    *    *
Docket A-219-11.
RE: Appeal of Brian Decker,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family
residence
Two
Story
Frame Property located on the
premises
known
as
3454
Doris
Avenue from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
—
EXTERIOR
MAINTENANCE, dated June 6, 2011 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to abate the garage and exterior violations; with reasonable additional
time to be granted by the Board if
required; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-235-11.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland Bricks,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 1019 Pelton Ct.
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
June 6, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).

*    *    *
Docket A-267-11.
RE: Appeal of Larry Craig, Owner
of the One Dwelling Unit SingleFamily Residence Two & One/half
Story Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry
Veneer Property located on the
premises known as 14632 Wemple
Road from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN STRUCTURE, dated June 13, 2008 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.

October 19, 2011
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time, based upon testimony presented by the Department
of Building and Housing to accept
the NFPA 701-2004 compliance for
the material being tested, and to
permit the banner to be constructed
in accordance to that standard.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-305-11.
RE: Appeal of Mike D’Amico,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 2546 Lorain
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER (proposal to erect 7' X 7'
double faced non-illuminated projecting sign), dated September 6,
2011 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the projection variance requested of 11
inches to permit the sign to be fully
viewed from both sides, based upon
concurrence of the City and the
existing
building
obstruction.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *
Docket A-321-11.
RE: Appeal of Garden Valley
Housing Partnership II, L.P. C/O
Ralph A. Falbo, Inc., Owner of the
Property located on the premises
known as 7230 Kinsman Road from
an ADJUDICATION ORDER (emergency power for elevator), dated
September 30, 2011 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the generator to
remain as it is, that the platform
size remains as it is currently, that
proper signage be posted in the elevator for 4,000 pounds capacity and
to permit the connection of the elevator to the generator. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Bradley, Maschke. Nays: None.
*    *    *

*    *    *

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS
FROM SEPTEMBER 14, 2011:

Docket A-294-11.
RE: Appeal of MRN, Limited,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 334 Euclid
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER (proposal to erect (4) 3 X
17' - 10" and (4) 3' X 6' - 4" double
faced
vinyl
banner),
dated
August 31, 2011 of the Director of

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):

1704

October 19, 2011
A-3-11 — Windy F. Siegfried
A-34-11 — Claude Villette
A-41-11 — Jermaine Jackson
A-45-11 — Dennis Casey
A-57-11 — Felicia Fox
A-59-11 — Bruce M. Robertson
A-61-11 — Nayra Perez
A-62-11 — Dolores E. Lee
A-63-11 — Cleveland Restoration
Group
A-74-11 — Cleveland Restoration
Group
A-120-11 — Desarea Strong
A-130-11 — Martin D’Amico
A-278-11 — U.S.A. Parking Systems

The City Record
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
September 28, 2011
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr. Bradley.
*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Not Voting:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.

PUBLIC NOTICE

*    *    *

REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL

APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM
SEPTEMBER 14, 2011:

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
September 14, 2011
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke. Nays: None. Not Voting:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS
FROM SEPTEMBER 28, 2011:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Maschke for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-466-10
—
Pauline
Curiale
(Amended)
A-33-11 — Dorothy Marlow
A-55-11 — Terence Coffey
A-58-11 — Lance A. Williams
A-60-11 — Afefa Sadik
A-64-11 — Hampton Way Partners
LLC
A-68-11 — Robert C. Jones
A-69-11 — Mike Bugarcic
A-70-11 — Mark Girgis
A-71-11 — Sheike Shabazz
A-73-11 — Irving J. Maldonado
A-82-11 — Sean Driskel & Mike
Hart
A-84-11 — ACFB Incorporated
A-85-11 — Katherine D. Harrison
A-231-11 — Absolute Exteriors,
Inc.
A-257-11 — Acorn Development,
LLC
A-274-11 — Kayoko Irie
A-286-11 — Cleveland Museum of
Natural History
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Gallagher,
Saab, Maschke. Nays: None. Not Voting: Mr. Bradley.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM
SEPTEMBER 28, 2011:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Maschke for Approval and Adoption

DEPARTMENT OF

Request for Proposals from qualified firms/entrepreneurs/businesses
interested in providing services of a
neighborhood grocery store including but not limited to fresh produce
& vegetables, meats, cheeses, bread,
and prepared foods located at the
vacant 1.78 acre City-owned property 10505 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
OH 44115. Proposals are due by 5:00
p.m. Eastern Standard Time, Friday,
December 16, 2011. For more information and to see the Request for
Proposals,
go
to
http://www.city.cleveland.oh.us/City
ofCleveland/Home/Government/City
Agencies/Finance/RFP?_piref34_136
352_34_121844_121844.__ora_navig=a
ction%3Ddetails%26rfpId%3D3617
or call (216) 664-3720.

October 19, 2011, October 26, 2011,
November 2, 2011, November 9, 2011,
November 16, 2011, November 23,
2011, November 30, 2011, December 7,
2011 and December 14, 2011

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

25
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011
File No. 176-11 — Year 2012-A Cleaning and Cement Mortar Lining of
Distribution Mains, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 814-11, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 20, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
IN THE
DOLLARS ($100.00)
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND OR MONEY ORDER ONLY
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
AT 10:00 A.M. THE CARL B.
STOKES,
PUBLIC UTILITIES
BUILDING, 4TH FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.

1705

File No. 180-11 — Cab and Chassis
w/Cable Pulling Unit and Related Equipment, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Works, as authorized by Ordinance Nos. 1849-08 and
1602-10, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, January 26, 2009
and December 6, 2010, respectively.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 AT 10:00
A.M. THE MOTOR VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44105.
File No. 183-11 — Field Force Equipment, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 885-10,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, September 27, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
AT 10:00 A.M. THE JUSTICE
CENTER,
1300
ONTARIO
STREET, ROOM 731, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.

The City Record

26
File No. 184-11 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Remove ExistWalk-Off
Carpeting
and
ing
Install, for the Various Divisions of
Port Control, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2011 AT 10:00
A.M. THE DEPARTMENT OF
PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVBUILDING,
19451
FIVE
ING
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
POINTS
OHIO 44135-3193.
October 19, 2011 and October 26, 2011
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2011
File No. 177-11 — Year 2012-B Cleaning and Cement Mortar Lining of
Distribution Mains, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 814-11, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 20, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
IN THE
DOLLARS ($100.00)
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND OR MONEY ORDER ONLY
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDAPRE-BID
MEETING
TORY
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
AT 10:00 A.M. THE CARL B.
STOKES,
PUBLIC UTILITIES
BUILDING, 4TH FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114
October 19, 2011 and October 26, 2011
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
File No. 178-11 — Repairing and
Maintaining Runways, Taxiways,
Ramps, Roads and Other Concrete
Surfaces, for the Various Divisions
of Port Control, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1119-11, pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 AT 10:00
A.M. THE DEPARTMENT OF
PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44135-3193.
File No. 179-11 — Purchase of LED
Holiday Decorative Lighting, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.26
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 AT 2:30
P.M. THE TOM L. JOHNSON
BUILDING,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.

File No. 181-11 — Replacement of
Cleveland
Public
Carpeting
Power, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinances No. N/A passed City
Council N/A.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 AT 11:30
A.M. THE TOM L. JOHNSON
BUILDING,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
File No. 182-11 — Stop Cock Boxes,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 AT 10:30
A.M. THE DISTRIBUTION AND
MAINTENANCE, 4600 HARVARD
AVENUE, PIPE REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44105.
October 19, 2011 and October 26, 2011

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1455-11.
By Council Member K. Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
stock of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
at 2892 East 116th Street and repealing Resolution No. 970-11, objecting to
said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of stock of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit to Fuel Expo, Inc.,
DBA Buckeye Supermarket, 2892 East
116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
Permanent No. 2957678, by Resolution
No. 970-11 adopted by the Council on
July 20, 2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Fuel
Expo, Inc., DBA Buckeye Supermarket, 2892 East 116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent No.
2957678, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 97011, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

1706

October 19, 2011
Res. No. 1456-11.
By Council Member Kelley.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 5741 Memphis Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 982-11, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 5741 Memphis Avenue by Resolution No. 982-11
adopted by the Council on July 20,
2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Jaigurudev,
Inc., 5741 Memphis Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44144, Permanent Number
4219893 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 98211, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 530-11.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into an amendment to Contract No. 69504 with Woolpert, Inc.
to provide additional improvements
to the Division of Water’s Geographic Information System, for the
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period up to two years.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1657-08, passed December 8, 2008,
this Council authorized the Director
of Public Utilities to employ one or
more professional consultants, software developers, or vendors to
implement
improvements
to
the
Division of Water’s IT Master Plan
and Geographic Information System,
and other related services for a period of two years; and
Whereas,
under
Contract
No.
69504, Woolpert, Inc. has been implementing improvements to the Geographic Information System, and
additional services are necessary;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 69505 with Woolpert, Inc. to
implement
improvements
to
the
Division
of
Water’s
Geographic
Information System, for a period up
to two years.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirma-

October 19, 2011
tive vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1100-11.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into one or more requirement
contracts without competitive bidding with HSQ Technology for materials, equipment, supplies, services,
software, software integration, labor,
and training necessary to refurbish
the supervisory control and data
acquisition system manufactured by
HSQ Technology, including maintenance, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
HSQ Technology. Therefore, the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one or more written
requirement contracts with HSQ
Technology, for the requirements
for a period not to exceed two years
of the necessary items for: materials, equipment, supplies, services,
software,
software
integration,
labor, and training necessary to
refurbish the supervisory control
and
data
acquisition
system
(“SCADA”) manufactured by HSQ
Technology, including maintenance,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a
unit basis, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a delivery order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RQN 2002, RL 2011-35)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1101-11.
By Council Members Keane, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease Agreement with

The City Record
MUDA Construction, Inc. for the lease
of office space at Burke Lakefront
Airport for general office-related
activities, for the Department of Port
Control, for a period of two years,
with two one-year options to renew,
the first of which is exercisable
through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease Agreement (“Lease”)
with
MUDA
Construction,
Inc.
(“Lessee”) for use and occupancy of
approximately 324 square feet of
office space located in Room 149 of
the passenger terminal building at
Burke Lakefront Airport (“Leased
Premises”) for general office-related
activities which is no longer needed
for public use for the term of the
lease. The term of the lease shall be
for a two year period, commencing
on the effective date of the Lease,
with two one-year options to renew.
The first of the one-year options to
renew may not be exercised without
additional legislative authority. If
such additional legislative authority
is granted and the first of the oneyear options to renew is exercised,
then the second of the one-year
options to renew may be exercisable
at the option of the Director of Port
Control, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council. For use of the Leased
Premises, Lessee shall pay the City
the annual rate of $4,212.00, payable
in monthly installments of $351.00
which is equal to $13.00 per square
foot. Such rent shall be paid in
monthly installments due on the
first day of each month during the
term of the Lease.
Section 2. That the Lease authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1113-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County for the 2009 Law
Enforcement Terrorism Protection
Program; authorizing one or more
requirement contracts for the purchase of materials, equipment, supplies, and services; authorizing one or
more contracts with FingerPrint USA
for professional services necessary to
manage the program; and to amend
Contract No. 69633 with Cogent, Inc. to
provide additional AFIS equipment.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1707

27
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $630,558.76,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term, from Cuyahoga County to conduct the 2009 Law Enforcement Terrorism
Protection
Program
(“LETPP”); that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
grant agreement and award letter
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the grant agreement
and award letter for the grant, File
No. 1113-11-A, made a part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at the public hearing on
this legislation, is approved in all
respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the necessary items of materials, equipment,
supplies, and services needed to
implement the program as described
in the file. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
the grant term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be charged against
the proper appropriation accounts
and the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with
all later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts
certified by the Director.
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative agreements with
other governmental agencies. The
Director of Public Safety may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with FingerPrint USA for professional services
necessary to manage the program
during the grant term.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
an amendment to Contract No. 69633
with Cogent, Inc. to extend the term
of the contract to run coterminous
with this grant term to provide additional AFIS equipment.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant if the
extension
does
not
involve
an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.

28
Section 9. That the cost of the contract or contracts, or contract amendment or amendments shall be paid
from the fund or funds which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1119-11.
By Council Members Keane, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public
improvement of repairing and maintaining runways, taxiways, ramps,
roads, and other concrete surfaces for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control, and authorizing
the Director of Port Control to enter
into one or more public improvement
requirement contracts for the making
of the improvement, for a period of
two years, with two one-year options
to renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of
repairing and maintaining runways,
taxiways, ramps, roads, and other
concrete surfaces for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control, by one or more public
improvement requirement contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders on a unit basis for
the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to make one or
more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a period of
two years, with two one-year options
to renew, for the making of the above
public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the improvement for a period not
to exceed the specified term, purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control. The first
of the one-year options to renew may
not be exercised without additional
legislative authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted
and the first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second of
the one-year options to renew may be
exercisable at the option of the Director of Port Control, without the necessity of obtaining additional authority
of this Council. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as the

The City Record
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 3. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to apply and pay
for permits, licenses, or other authorizations required by any regulatory
agency or public authority to permit
performance of the work authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 4. That the costs of the contract or contracts or other expenditures shall be charged against the
proper appropriation accounts and
the Director of Finance shall certify
the amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a delivery
order against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RQN 3001, RL 2011-43)
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Port Control may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1215-11.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 4 of Ordinance No. 55811, passed July 20, 2011, relating to
authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to purchase various wattageequivalent LED streetlights, including any materials necessary to retrofit or replace existing outdoor streetlights, to be installed on a limited
number of poles for a pilot program
for up to two years, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 4 of
Ordinance No. 558-11, passed July 20,
2011, are amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Charter
and Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make
one or more written contracts with
not more than the seven (7) lowest
and best bidders for each or all of
the following items eligible for federal funding and not more than the
seven (7) lowest and best bidders
for each or all of such items not eligible for federal funding: equal

1708

October 19, 2011
quantities of LED equivalent 150watt streetlights, LED equivalent
250-watt
streetlights,
and
LED
equivalent
400-watt
streetlights,
including any materials necessary
to retrofit or replace existing outdoor streetlights, to implement a
pilot program for up to two years
on a limited number of poles to evaluate the performance, photometry,
aesthetic ambiance, and energy and
cost savings of LED streetlights, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Section 4. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
not exceed $200,000 for federally
funded items which shall be paid
from Fund No. 20 SF 670, Request
No. RQS 2004, RL 2011-27, and
$300,000 for non-federally funded
items which shall be paid from
Fund No. 58 SF 001, Request No.
RQS 2004, RL 2011-177.
Section 2. That existing Sections 1
and 4 of Ordinance No. 558-11, passed
July 20, 2011, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1216-11.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary to test, inspect,
maintain, repair, enhance or replace
building protection services, including, but not limited to, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems
or components, security systems or
components, and fire protection system or components, rental of equipment, and installation if necessary,
for the Divisions of Water, Water Pollution Control, and Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
test,
inspect,
maintain,
repair,
enhance or replace building protection services, including, but not limited to heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning systems or components,
security systems or components, and
fire protection system or components, rental of equipment, and
installation if necessary, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Divisions of Water,

October 19, 2011
Water Pollution Control, and Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RQN 2002, RL 2011-36)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative agreements with
other governmental agencies. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1219-11.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment
Financing Agreement with Optima
777, LLC, as the designee of Sage Hospitality, or its designee, to provide for
the acquisition, some demolition, and
complete renovation of the former
Crowne Plaza Hotel located at 777 St.
Clair Avenue; to provide for payments
to the Cleveland City School District;
and to declare certain improvements
to real property to be a public purpose.
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, improvements to
real property may be declared to be a
public purpose where fee title to the
real property was, at one time, held by
the City of Cleveland and the real
property is then leased or conveyed
by the City; and
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 458-11, passed May 9,
2011, and prior to the adoption of this
ordinance, the City approved both the
acquisition and conveyance of fee
title to certain real property, which is
more particularly described in the
documents set forth in the file
described in this ordinance (the “Real
Property”); and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the improvements
declared to be a public purpose may

The City Record
be exempt from real property taxation; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the owners of the
improvements may be required to
make annual service payments in lieu
of taxes that would have been paid
had the improvement not been
exempt; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the exemption may
exceed 75% of the improvements for
up to 30 years when a portion of the
service payments so collected are distributed to the Cleveland City School
District (“District”) in an amount
equal to the amount the District
would have received had the improvement not been exempt; and
Whereas, the District has been notified of the intent to enter into the
agreement authorized by this ordinance in compliance with Sections
5709.41(C)(4) and 5709.83 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the improvements
to be constructed by Optima 777,
LLC, as the designee of Sage Hospitality, or its designee (“Redeveloper”), as more fully described in
File No. 1219-11-A (“Improvements”)
on the Real Property, are declared
to be a public purpose for purposes
of Section 5709.41 of the Revised
Code.
Section 2. That one hundred percent
(100%) of the Improvements are
declared exempt from real property
taxation for a period of 30 years; and
that in no event shall the exemption
period extend beyond 30 years.
Section 3. That, under Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code, Redeveloper (or the owners of the Improvements) shall make service payments
for a period of 30 years in lieu of the
exempt taxes to the Cuyahoga County
Treasurer; the payments shall be
charged and collected in the same
manner, and shall be in an amount not
less than the taxes that would have
been paid had the Improvements not
been exempt from taxation.
Section 4. That a portion of the service payments collected under Section
3 of this ordinance shall be distributed by the Cuyahoga County Treasurer to the Treasurer of the District
in the amount of the taxes that would
have been payable to the District had
the Improvement not been exempt
from taxation.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement or agreements with Redeveloper to provide
for the exemption and service payments described in this ordinance,
including agreements securing the
payments described in Section 3 of
this ordinance, which agreement or
agreements shall contain those terms
contained the file mentioned above.
Section 6. That it is found and determined that all formal actions of this
Council concerning and relating to
the passage of this ordinance were
adopted in open meetings of this
Council, and any of its committees
that resulted in formal action were in
meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirma-

1709

29
tive vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1292-11.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into an agreement with Rock
Ohio Caesars, LLC and USA Parking
Systems to allow them to reline the
sewer on High Avenue, and to accept
the improvement as a gift to the City.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Rock
Ohio Caesars, LLC and USA Parking
Systems to allow them to reline the
sewer on High Avenue, and to
accept the improvement, as a gift to
the City. The agreement shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1293-11.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of valves, actuators, and appurtenances, and labor and materials
necessary to maintain and repair various types of valves, actuators, and
appurtenances, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for a period up to two
years of the necessary items of various types of valves, actuators, and
appurtenances, and labor and materials necessary to maintain various
types
of
valves,
actuators,
and
appurtenances, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be

30
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. RQN 2002, RL 2011-41
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1342-11.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 23rd Street, East
25th Street, East 25th Place and
Payne Court.
Whereas, under Resolution No. 86209, adopted August 5, 2009, this Council declared its intention to vacate a
portion of East 23rd Street, East 25th
Street, East 25th Place and Payne
Court N.E.; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on the
abutting property owners affected by
the resolution which stated a time
and place when objections would be
heard before the Board of Revision of
Assessments; and
Whereas, on September 20, 2011, at a
special meeting, the Board of Revision
of
Assessments
met
and
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating
a portion of the above and that it will
not be detrimental to the general
interest and that it should be made;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares
that
the
following
described real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio

The City Record
and part of original 10 acre lots 79
thru 84;
East 23rd Street
All that portion of East 23rd Street
(60 feet wide) extending southerly
from the south right of way line of
Payne Avenue N.E. (80 feet wide) to
the north right of way line of Chester
Avenue N.E. (86 feet wide).
East 25th Street
All that portion of East 25th Street
(60 feet wide) extending southerly
from the south right of way line of
Payne Avenue N.E. (80 feet wide) to
its terminus with the vacated portion
of East 25th Street (60 feet wide ) as
shown in volume 247 page 41 of Cuyahoga County Records.
East 25th Place
All that remaining portion of East
25th Place (14 feet wide) extending
southerly from the southerly portion
of East 25th Place (14 feet wide) as
vacated in City of Cleveland Ordinance 862-06, Passed June 12, 2006 to
its terminus with the vacated portion
of East 25th Place (14 feet wide) as
shown in volume 247 page 41 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Payne Court N.E.
All that remaining portion of Payne
Court N.E. (14 feet wide) extending
easterly from the east right of way
line of East 22nd Street (60 feet wide)
to the west limited access line of the
InnerBelt Freeway.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved to
the City of Cleveland an easement of
full width as described above for
Cleveland Public Power, Dominion
East Ohio Gas, AT&T, Cleveland
Thermal, the Department of Water
and the Illuminating Company (CEI).
That no structures shall be erected
on the premises described in this easement except those constructed under
the approval of, and in compliance
with, plans approved by Cleveland
Public Power, Dominion East Ohio
Gas, AT&T, Cleveland Thermal, the
Department of Water, Illuminating
Company (CEI) and the City of Cleveland.
Section
3.
That
provided
all
required
approvals
have
been
obtained, the Manager of Engineering and Construction is directed to
record the vacation plat in the office
of the Recorder of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
ordinance to the Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

October 19, 2011
India Community Foundation event
in Cleveland City Hall on October 21,
2011.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the Clerk of Council  is hereby
authorized to dispense beer and
wine at the Federation of India
Community Foundation event in
Cleveland City Hall on October 21,
2011.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 10, 2011.
Effective October 14, 2011.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, October 17, 2011
9:30 a.m.
Public Service Committee: Present:
Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice Chair;
Dow, K. Johnson, Keane, Polensek,
Authorized
Sweeney.
Pruitt,
Absence: Cleveland.
2:00 p.m.
Finance
Committee:
Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane,
Miller,
Polensek,
Pruitt,
Authorized
Absence:
Westbrook.
Mitchell.

Tuesday, October 18, 2011
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller, Pruitt,
Authorized
Westbrook,
Zone.
Absence: Cimperman.
1:30 p.m.
Sustainability Sub-Committee: Present: Zone, Chair; Westbrook, Vice
Chair;
Cummins,
J.
Johnson,
Mitchell.

Wednesday, October 19, 2011
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell,
Chair;
Polensek,
Vice
Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins,
Dow, Miller, Mitchell. Authorized
Absence: Zone.
1:30 p.m.

Ord. No. 1454-11.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to dispense
beer and wine at the Federation of

1710

Public Utilities Committee: Present: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Cummins,
Dow,
Miller,
Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: Conwell.

October 19, 2011

The City Record

31

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Economic Development — TIF with Optima 777, LLC — complete renovation of 777 St. Clair
Ave. (Ward 03) (O 1219-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1709
Utilities Department — Rock Oho Caesars, LLC & USA Parking Systems — Accept gift of High
Ave. sewer relining (O 1292-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1709

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Algonac Road, 1779, (Ward 10) – Felicia Fox, owner — appeal adopted on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-57-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ashbury Avenue, 11600, (Ward 9) – Desarea Strong, owner — appeal adopted on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-120-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bolivar Avenue, 1124, (Ward 3) – Bolivar Garage, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-95-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Camden Avenue, 6810, (Ward 15) – Kystyna Beserman, owner — appeal resolved on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-91-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Colonnade Road, 1812, (Ward 10) – Claude Villette, owner — appeal adopted on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-34-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Continental Avenue, 12013, (Ward 4) – Lance A. Williams, owner — appeal adopted on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-58-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Croton Avenue, 3725, (Ward 5) – Acorn Development, LLC — George Troicky, owner — appeal
adopted on 10/12/11 (Doc. A-257-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deise Avenue, 13705, (Ward 10) – Cleveland Restoration Group, owner — appeal adopted on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-63-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Doris Avenue, 3454, (Ward 19) – Brian Decker, owner — appeal resolved on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-219-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 115th Street, 1331, (Ward 9) – Terence Coffey, owner — appeal adopted on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-55-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 118th Street, 3688, (Ward 8) – Vicktoria Kotov, owner — appeal withdrawn on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-98-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 125th Street, 3370, (Ward 4) – Larry Craig, owner — appeal resolved on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-104-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 126th Street, 505, (Ward 10) – Raseem Palker, owner — no action on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-118-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 130th Street, 971, (Ward 9) – Lamont Ellis, owner — appeal resolved on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-97-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 162nd Street, 664, (Ward 11) – Bruce M. Robertson, owner — appeal adopted on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-59-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 174th Street, 4660, (Ward 1) – Catherine Surratt, owner — appeal resolved on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-102-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 59th Street, 3699, (Ward 12) – Sean Driskel and Mike Hart, owners — appeal adopted
on 10/12/11 (Doc. A-82-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 70th Street, 2197, (Ward 5) – Dolores E. Lee, owner — appeal adopted on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-62-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 82nd Street, 1630, (Ward 7) – Dorothy Marlow, owner — appeal adopted on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-33-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 86th Street, 2246, (Ward 6) – Jermaine Jackson, owner — appeal adopted on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-41-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 90th Street, 767, (Ward 8) – Brandon Gregg, owner — appeal withdrawn on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-99-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd Street, 1846, (Ward 6) – David M. Dotson, owner — appeal resolved on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-211-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Easton Avenue, 8901, (Ward 6) – Larry Craig, owner — appeal resolved on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-103-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 334, (Ward 3) – MRN, Limited, owner — appeal resolved on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-294-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forest Avenue, 12505, (Ward 4) – Larry Craig, owner — appeal resolved on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-266-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forman Avenue, 6813, (Ward 12) – Adam R. Koriatek, owner — appeal resolved on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-93-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gertrude Avenue, 6616, (Ward 12) – Cleveland Restoration Group, owner — appeal adopted
on 10/12/11 (Doc. A-74-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hamm Avenue, 5006, (Ward 5) – Mike Bugarcic, owner — appeal adopted on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-69-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Havel Avenue, 11618, (Ward 4) – Larry Craig, owner — appeal resolved on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-105-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hayden Avenue, 1147, (Ward 10) – Sheike Shabazz, owner — appeal adopted on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-71-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1711

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705

The City Record

32

Hulda Avenue, 10615, (Ward 6) – James A. Davis, owner — appeal resolved on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-87-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kinsman Road, 7230, (Ward 5) – Garden Valley Housing Partnership II, L.P. c/o Ralph A.
Falbo, Inc., owner — appeal resolved on 10/12/11 (Doc. A-321-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeview Road, 970, (Ward 9) – Afefa Sadik, owner — appeal adopted on 10/12/11 (Doc. A-60-11).
Lancelot Avenue, 12535, (Ward 2) – Dennis Casey/Caden Development, owner — appeal adopted
on 10/12/11 (Doc. A-45-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lansing Avenue, 6316, (Ward 12) – Martin D’Amico, owner — appeal adopted on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-130-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Larchmere Boulevard, 12621, (Ward 6) – ACFB Incorporated, owner — appeal adopted on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-84-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Larchmere Boulevard, 13002, (Ward 6) – Kayoko Irie, owner — appeal adopted on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-274-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lester Street, 4514, (Ward 5) – Pauline Curiale (Deceased), c/o Lawrence Vesely, owner —
appeal adopted on 10/12/11 (Doc. A-466-10). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Linwood Avenue, 7917, (Ward 7) – Jacqueline Beatrice Parries, owner — appeal resolved on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-72-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 2546, (Ward 3) – Mike D’Amico, owner — appeal resolved on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-305-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Road, 9019, (Ward 16) – 9019-9025 Lorain Avenue, LLC, owner — appeal resolved on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-101-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Overlook Avenue, 11923, (Ward 6) – Marietta Allen, owner — appeal resolved on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-86-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ontario Avenue, 2105, (Ward 3) – U.S.A. Parking Systems — Ellsworth Grimsley, owner —
appeal adopted on 10/12/11 (Doc. A-278-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parkhill Avenue, 12503, (Ward 4) – Windy F. Siegfried, owner — appeal adopted on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-3-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4364, (Ward 13) – Keith K. Duffield, owner — appeal resolved on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-94-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pelton Court, 1019, (Ward 3) – Cleveland Bricks, owner — appeal resolved on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-235-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Portage Avenue, 5811, (Ward 12) – Robert C. Jones, owner — appeal adopted on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-68-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
School Avenue, 15618, (Ward 11) – Lawrence Calloway, owner — appeal withdrawn on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-96-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Avenue, 2615, (Ward 14) – Mark Girgis, owner — appeal adopted on 10/12/11 (Doc. A-70-11)
Wade Oval Drive, 1; move to 11601 Wade Park Avenue, (Ward 8/9) – Cleveland Museum
of Natural History, owner — appeal adopted on 10/12/11 (Doc. A-286-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wemple Road, 14632, (Ward 10) – Larry Craig, owner — appeal resolved on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-267-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 30th Street, 2724, (Ward 14) – Nayra Perez, owner — appeal adopted on 10/12/11
(Doc. A-61-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 43rd Street, 3404, (Ward 14) – Absolute Exteriors, Inc., owner — appeal adopted on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-231-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 48th Street, 1864, (Ward 15) – Katherine D. Harrison, owner — appeal adopted
on 10/12/11 (Doc. A-85-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 50th Street, 3147, (Ward 15) – Irving J. Maldonado, owner — appeal adopted on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-73-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 98th Street, 2042, (Ward 16) – Hampton Way Partners, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-64-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodbridge Avenue, 3004, (Ward 14) – Magda Matos, owner — appeal resolved on
10/12/11 (Doc. A-194-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

October 19, 2011
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1702
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1702
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1703
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1702
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1702
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1702
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1704
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1703

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Residential Sound Insulation Program, Phase 2 Continuation, design and construction
management, 2011-2012 — per Ord. 930-95, 469-98, 327-2000 to C & S Engineers, Inc. —
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 483-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Chatham Avenue, 3609 (Ward 15) — PPN 007-07-109 — Wilson & Eulialia Reyes (BOC Res. 491-11) .
East 143rd Street, 824 (Ward 10) — PPN 115-01-029 — Shirley Seawright (BOC Res. 489-11) . . . . . . . .
Temple Avenue, 6819 (Ward 12) — PPN 125-31-026 — Hope Williams (BOC Res. 490-11) . . . . . . . . . . .
West 98th Street, 2062 (Ward 16) — PPN 005-23-132 (northerly part) — Robert A. & Gay V.
Puchmajer (BOC Res. 492-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 98th Street, 2062 (Ward 16) — PPN 005-23-132 (southerly part) — Cudell Improvement,
Inc. (BOC Res. 493-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1691
. . . . . . . . . . . 1691
. . . . . . . . . . . 1691
. . . . . . . . . . . 1692
. . . . . . . . . . . 1692

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Chatham Avenue, 3609 (Ward 15) — PPN 007-07-109 — Wilson & Eulialia Reyes (BOC Res. 491-11) .
East 143rd Street, 824 (Ward 10) — PPN 115-01-029 — Shirley Seawright (BOC Res. 489-11) . . . . . . . .
Temple Avenue, 6819 (Ward 12) — PPN 125-31-026 — Hope Williams (BOC Res. 490-11) . . . . . . . . . . .
West 98th Street, 2062 (Ward 16) — PPN 005-23-132 (northerly part) — Robert A. & Gay V.
Puchmajer (BOC Res. 492-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 98th Street, 2062 (Ward 16) — PPN 005-23-132 (southerly part) — Cudell Improvement,
Inc. (BOC Res. 493-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1712

. . . . . . . . . . . 1691
. . . . . . . . . . . 1691
. . . . . . . . . . . 1691
. . . . . . . . . . . 1692
. . . . . . . . . . . 1692

October 19, 2011

The City Record

33

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Electrical parts and equipment — per Ord. 323-11 to ADB Airfield Solutions, LLC
(BOC Res. 486-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electrical parts and equipment — per Ord. 323-11 to Consolidated Electric Distribution,
Inc., d.b.a. Leader Electric Supply Co. (BOC Res. 488-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electrical parts and equipment — per Ord. 323-11 to Genesis Lamp Corporation (BOC Res. 487-11).
Janitorial maintenance and cleaning supplies — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Your
Building Maint., Inc. (BOC Res. 484-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Landscaping — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Aaron Landscaping, Inc. (BOC Res. 485-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Planning study preparation and TIGER Grant Application — modify Contract #PS2010-251 per
BOC Res. 325-10, 453-11 (BOC Res. 482-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential Sound Insulation Program, Phase 2 Continuation, design and construction
management, 2011-2012 — per Ord. 930-95, 469-98, 327-2000 to C & S Engineers, Inc. —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (BOC Res. 483-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1691
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1689

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1690

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Planning study preparation and TIGER Grant Application — modify Contract #PS2010-251 per
BOC Res. 325-10, 453-11 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 482-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
Residential Sound Insulation Program, Phase 2 Continuation, design and construction
management, 2011-2012 — per Ord. 930-95, 469-98, 327-2000 to C & S Engineers, Inc. —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 483-11). . . . . . . . . . . . 1690

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Diving and underwater inspection services — per Ord. 359-11 — all bids rejected —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 481-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Electrical parts and equipment — per Ord. 323-11 to ADB Airfield Solutions, LLC — Dept.
of Port Control (BOC Res. 486-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electrical parts and equipment — per Ord. 323-11 to Consolidated Electric Distribution,
Inc., d.b.a. Leader Electric Supply Co. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 488-11). . . . .
Electrical parts and equipment — per Ord. 323-11 to Genesis Lamp Corporation — Dept. of
Port Control (BOC Res. 487-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Janitorial maintenance and cleaning supplies — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Your
Building Maint., Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 484-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Landscaping — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Aaron Landscaping, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 485-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1691
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1690

Board of Control — Water Division
Diving and underwater inspection services — per Ord. 359-11 — all bids rejected — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 481-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Central Avenue, 8001-8105, (Ward 6) – Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation, owner
and Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority — appeal granted and adopted on 10/17/11
(Cal. 11-169) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Avenue, 8113, (Ward 6) – Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation, owner and
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority — appeal granted and adopted on
10/17/11 (Cal. 11-167) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Avenue, 8205-35, (Ward 6) – Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation, owner
and Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority — appeal granted and adopted on 10/17/11
(Cal. 11-168) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 11607, (Ward 9) – Maximum Accessible Housing of Ohio — appeal heard
on 10/17/11 (Cal. 11-170) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Golden Avenue, 7920-8014, (Ward 6) – Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation, owner
and Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority — appeal granted and adopted on 10/17/11
(Cal. 11-166) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grovewood Avenue, 17722, (Ward 11) – Brenda Armstrong-Gary, owner — appeal heard on
10/17/11 (Cal. 11-175) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jefferson Avenue, 961, (Ward 3) – Angel Cuevas, owner appeal postponed to 10/31/11
on 10/17/11 (Cal. 11-32) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jennings Road, 4201, (Ward 12) – Angelo Martin, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 10/17/11 (Cal. 11-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 12645, (Ward 17) – The Salvation Army, owner — appeal heard on 10/17/11
(Cal. 11-172) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 3829, (Ward 15) – Ellen Mueller, owner and Alfonso Lugo, prospective
tenant — appeal heard on 10/17/11 (Cal. 11-141) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 9025, (Ward 16) – The 9019-9025 Lorain Avenue LLC, owner — appeal heard
on 10/17/11 (Cal. 11-123) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Avenue, 1222, (Ward 3) – RTN Limited Partners, owner and David Parker,
prospective tenant — appeal reinstated on 10/17/11 (Cal. 11-148) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1713

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1702
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701

The City Record

34

October 19, 2011

St. Clair Avenue, 12307, (Ward 10) – The 12307 St. Clair Ltd., owner — appeal postponed
to 11/7/11 on 10/17/11 (Cal. 11-173) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
West 112th Street, 1306, (Ward 16) – Valerie Totire, owner — appeal heard on
10/17/11 (Cal. 11-174) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
West 11th Place, 2039-59, (Ward 3) – Nathan Dent Development, LLC, owner and Jesse Grant,
prospective purchaser — appeal granted and adopted on 10/17/11 (Cal. 11-165) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Brookpark Road, 6310, (Ward 13) – Lewis and Jeremy Mitchell, owners and Greg Deimling,
tenant — appeal to be heard on 10/31/11 (Cal. 11-184) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 90th Street, 2721, (Ward 6) – Miceli-Lograsso Development Company, owner — appeal
to be heard on 10/31/11 (Cal. 11-185). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 90th Street, 2726, (Ward 6) – Miceli-Lograsso Development Company, owner — appeal
to be heard on 10/31/11 (Cal. 11-186). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Green Road, 2335, (Ward 10) – Gloria Robinson, owner — appeal to be heard on
10/31/11 (Cal. 11-187) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 17138, (Ward 19) – Kathleen McBride Plum, owner and KeyBank National
Association, tenant — appeal to be heard on 10/31/11 (Cal. 11-188) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Road, 15222, (Ward 11) – Samira Abuaun, owner — appeal to be heard on 10/31/11
(Cal. 11-180) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1700
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1701
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1700

Burke Lakefront Airport
Port Control — Lease with Muda Construction — office space at Burke Airport (O 1101-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

Capital Projects
Briggs Rd., — encroach right — of — way — maintaining back yard improvements & concrete
parking area and fencing — James R. Watkins (O 1478-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Cemeteries Division
D.R.S. Enterprises — Contract No.P120100000000052 — City Of Cleveland Cemetery Improvements
(Package A) — Statement of Final Acceptance (F 1497-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
R.J. Platten Contracting — Contract No.P120100000000043 — City Of Cleveland Cemetery
Improvements (Package B) — Statement of Final Acceptance (F 1498-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683

City Council
Allocation of Casino Funds (O 1477-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687

City Hall
Alcoholic Beverages — Dispense at City Hall — October 21, 2011 — Federation of India
Community Foundation (O 1454-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1710

City of Cleveland Bids
Cab and chassis with cable pulling unit and equipment — Department of Public Works —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1849-08, 1602-10 — bid due
November 10, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carpet replacement — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public Power —
per Ord. pending — bid due November 17, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . .
Carpeting, remove and instal — Department of Port Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid
due November 10, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution water mains — cleaning and cement mortar lining (Area 2012-A) — Department
of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 814-11 — bid due November
10, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution water mains — cleaning and cement mortar lining (Area 2012-B) — Department
of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 814-11 — bid due November
11, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Field Force equipment — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per Ord.
885-10 — bid due November 10, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
LED Holiday decorative lighting — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland
Public Power — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — bid due November 17, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011
and 10/26/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Runways, taxiways, ramps, roads and concrete areas repair and maintenance — Department
of Port Control — per Ord. 1119-11 — bid due November 17, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011
and 10/26/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stop cock boxes — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per C.O. Sec.
129.25 — bid due November 17, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1714

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1705

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706

The City Record

October 19, 2011

35

City Planning Commission
East 23rd St., East 25th St., East 25th Place & Payne Court — vacate a portion (Ward 08)
(O 1342-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1710

Clerk Of Council
Alcoholic Beverages — Dispense at City Hall — October 21, 2011 — Federation of India
Community Foundation (O 1454-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1710

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 68393 and contract amendment with Parking Solutions,
Inc. (O 1479-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Cleveland Public Power
Amend Sect(s.) 1 & 4 Of Ord. No. 558-11 — led streetlights (O 1215-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
Utilities Department — contracts — test, inspect, maintain, repair, enhance or replace
building protection systems (O 1216-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708

Codified Ordinances
Enact new Section 195.031 — Tax Exemption For Qualifying Live Music Venues (O 1492-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1686

Communications
D.R.S. Enterprises — Contract No.P120100000000052 — City Of Cleveland Cemetery Improvements
(Package A) — Statement of Final Acceptance (F 1497-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
Economic Development — Request for Proposal Publication — neighborhood grocery store
(10505 St. Clair Ave.) (Ward 08) (F 1486-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
R.J. Platten Contracting — Contract No.P120100000000043 — City Of Cleveland Cemetery
Improvements (Package B) — Statement of Final Acceptance (F 1498-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683

Community Development
Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1368-10 — Selling PPN 132-03-008 (Southerly Portion) — Land
Reutilization Program — FBE Inc., (O 1481-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1685
Central Ave., 6117 — PPN 118-19-022 / 023 — Land Reutilization Program — John D. Henderson,
Jr., or designee (Ward 05) (O 1480-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
East 156th St., 807 — PPN 115-24-058 — Land Reutilization Program — Matthew Adkins
& Tenesha Thomas (Ward 11) (O 1125-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689

Condolences
Crawford, Sr., Willie Alphonso (R 1500-11)
Jones, Donald Arthur “ D.J. “ (R 1503-11) . .
Mccray, Evan (R 1504-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meister, Joseph M. (R 1499-11) . . . . . . . . . . .
Mosby, Lillie Margaret (R 1502-11) . . . . . . .
Vukovic, Tracey (R 1501-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1684
1684
1684
1683
1684
1684

Congratulations
Brancatelli, Councilman Anthony (R 1505-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
King, Dr. Leonard T. (R 1506-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
Long, Robert M. (R 1507-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Contracts
Amend Sect(s.) 1 & 4 of Ord. No. 558-11 — led streetlights (O 1215-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
D.R.S. Enterprises — Contract No.P120100000000052 — City Of Cleveland Cemetery Improvements
(Package A) — Statement Of Final Acceptance (F 1497-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Grant — Ohio Dept. Of Development — Rehab Of Victory Bldg. (7012
Euclid Ave.) — Garson Victory, LLC (O 1482-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 68393 and Contract Amendment with Parking Solutions,
Inc. (O 1479-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
KBJ Incorp. — Contract No.69399 — Renovation Phase I (1201 Lakeside Ave.) — Statement of
Final Acceptance (Ward 03) (F 1491-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection Program; 2009 — Grant — Safety Department —
Cuyahoga Co. (O 1113-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — public improvement — repairing runways, taxiways, ramps, roads, and other
concrete surfaces (O 1119-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
R.J. Platten Contracting — Contract No.P120100000000043 — City Of Cleveland Cemetery
Improvements (Package B) — Statement of Final Acceptance (F 1498-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1715

. . . . . . . . . . . 1708
. . . . . . . . . . . 1683
. . . . . . . . . . . 1685
. . . . . . . . . . . 1684
. . . . . . . . . . . 1683
. . . . . . . . . . . 1707
. . . . . . . . . . . 1708
. . . . . . . . . . . 1683

The City Record

36

Utilities Department — Amendment to Contract No. 69504 — Woolpert, Inc. — Division Of Water
(GIS) (O 530-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — HSQ Technology for refurbish Scada (O 1100-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — test, inspect, maintain, repair, enhance or replace building
protection systems (O 1216-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — various types of valves, actuators, and appurtenances — Water
Division (O 1293-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

October 19, 2011
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1709

Cuyahoga County
Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection Program; 2009 — Grant — Safety Department (O 1113-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

Economic Development Department
Grant — Ohio Dept. of Development — Rehab of Victory Bldg. (7012 Euclid Ave.) — contract —
Garson Victory, LLC (O 1482-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1685
Request for Proposal Publication — neighborhood grocery store (10505 St. Clair Ave.)
(Ward 08) (F 1486-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
TIF with Optima 777, LLC — complete renovation of 777 St. Clair Ave. (Ward 03) (O 1219-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1709

Encroachments
Briggs Rd., — right — of — way — maintaining back yard improvements & concrete parking
area and fencing — James R. Watkins (O 1478-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Finance Department
Amend Ord. No. 647-11 — All City Vehicles (O 1483-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687
Enact new Section 195.031 — Tax Exemption For Qualifying Live Music Venues (O 1492-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1686

Grants
Economic Development — Ohio Dept. of Development — Rehab of Victory Bldg. (7012 Euclid
Ave.) — contract — Garson Victory, LLC (O 1482-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1685
Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection Program; 2009 — Safety Department — Cuyahoga
Co. (O 1113-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

Human Resources Department
Group Prescription Insurance Coverage — city employees — professional services (O 1485-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1686

Income Tax
Objecting to State Takeover Of Local Tax Collections (R 1484-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687

Insurance
Group Prescription Insurance Coverage — city employees — professional services (O 1485-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1686

Land Reutilization Program
Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1368-10 — Selling PPN 132-03-008 (Southerly Portion) — FBE
Inc., (O 1481-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1685
Central Ave., 6117 — PPN 118-19-022 / 023 — John D. Henderson, Jr., or designee (Ward 05)
(O 1480-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
East 156th St., 807 — PPN 115-24-058 — Matthew Adkins & Tenesha Thomas (Ward 11) (O 1125-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689

Lease Agreement
Port Control — Muda Construction — office space at Burke Airport (O 1101-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

Liquor Permits
Carnegie Ave., 3400 — new application (Ward 5) (F 1487-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Ave., 3400 — objection to issuance (Ward 05) (R 1495-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chester Ave., 5417 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 08) (F 1488-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Ave., 2101 — new application (Ward 03) (F 1490-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th St., 2892 — withdraw objection to transfer of stock — repeal Res. 970-11 (Ward
04) (R 1455-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 850 (Suite 120) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 1494-11) . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd., 3510 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 14) (F 1489-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 13939 — withdrawing objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1153-11 (Ward
18) (R 1496-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Ave., 5741 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 982-11 (Ward 13) (R 1456-11).
Prospect Ave., 618 (2nd Floor Only) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03)
(R 1493-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 1889 (1st Fl.) — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 1513-11). . . . . . . . . .

1716

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1683
1689
1683
1683

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1688
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1688
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1683

October 19, 2011

The City Record

37

Mayor’s Office
Allocation of Casino Funds (O 1477-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687
Objecting to State Takeover of Local Tax Collections (R 1484-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687

Ohio, State Of
Objecting to State Takeover of Local Tax Collections (R 1484-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687

Port Control Department
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 68393 and contract amendment with Parking Solutions,
Inc. (O 1479-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
Lease with Muda Construction — office space at Burke Airport (O 1101-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
Public improvement requirement contracts — repairing runways, taxiways, ramps, roads, and
other concrete surfaces (O 1119-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708

Professional Services
Group Prescription Insurance Coverage — city employees — professional services (O 1485-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1686

Public Improvements
Port Control — requirement contracts — repairing runways, taxiways, ramps, roads, and other
concrete surfaces (O 1119-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708

Public Works
Alcoholic Beverages — Dispense At City Hall — October 21, 2011 — Federation of India
Community Foundation (O 1454-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1710
D.R.S. Enterprises — Contract No.P120100000000052 — City Of Cleveland Cemetery Improvements
(Package A) — Statement of Final Acceptance (F 1497-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
R.J. Platten Contracting — Contract No.P120100000000043 — City Of Cleveland Cemetery
Improvements (Package B) — Statement of Final Acceptance (F 1498-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683

Recognition
202nd Annual Convocation Of The Grand Lodge of Ohio & Accepted Masons (R 1509-11) . . . . . . . .
Delta Tau Delta Fraternity (R 1511-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Phi Mu Sorority (R 1510-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. James A.M.E. Church/130th Session of The North Ohio A.M.E. Annual Conference (R 1512-11)
Watterson, Andrew (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1684
1684
1684
1684
1684

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Objecting to State Takeover of Local Tax Collections (R 1484-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687

Safety Department
Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection Program; 2009 — Grant — Cuyahoga Co. (O 1113-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707

Sewers
Utilities Department — Agreement with Rock Oho Caesars, LLC & USA Parking Systems —
Accept gift of High Ave. sewer relining (O 1292-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1709

Statement of Work Acceptance
D.R.S. Enterprises — Contract No.P120100000000052 — City Of Cleveland Cemetery Improvements
(Package A) — Statement of Final Acceptance (F 1497-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
KBJ Incorp. — Contract No.69399 — Renovation Phase I (1201 Lakeside Ave.) — Statement of
Final Acceptance (Ward 03) (F 1491-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
R.J. Platten Contracting — Contract No.P120100000000043 — City Of Cleveland Cemetery
Improvements (Package B) — Statement of Final Acceptance (F 1498-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683

Street Vacation
East 23rd St., East 25th St., East 25th Place & Payne Court — vacate a portion —
City Planning Commission (Ward 08) (O 1342-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1710

Utilities Department
Amendment To Contract No. 69504 — Woolpert, Inc. — Division Of Water (GIS) (O 530-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
Contracts — HSQ Technology for refurbish Scada (O 1100-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
Amend Sect(s.) 1 & 4 of Ord. No. 558-11 — led streetlights (O 1215-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708

1717

The City Record

38

October 19, 2011

Contracts — test, inspect, maintain, repair, enhance or replace building protection systems
(O 1216-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Agreement with Rock Oho Caesars, LLC & USA Parking Systems — Accept gift of High Ave.
sewer relining (O 1292-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts — various types of valves, actuators, and appurtenances — Water Division
(O 1293-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
KBJ Incorp. — Contract No.69399 — Renovation Phase I (1201 Lakeside Ave.) — Statement Of
Final Acceptance (Ward 03) (F 1491-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1709
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1709
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683

Vehicles
Amend Ord. No. 647-11 — All city vehicles (O 1483-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1687

Ward 01
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 02
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 03
Denison Ave., 2101 — new application — Liquor Permit (F 1490-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — TIF with Optima 777, LLC — complete renovation of 777 St. Clair
Ave. (O 1219-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 850 (Suite 120) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permits
(R 1494-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
KBJ Incorp. — Contract No.69399 — Renovation Phase I (1201 Lakeside Ave.) — Statement of
Final Acceptance (F 1491-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Long, Robert M. — Congratulations (R 1507-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., 618 (2nd Floor Only) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit
(R 1493-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 1889 (1st Fl.) — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (Ward
03) (F 1513-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1709
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1688
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1688
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683

Ward 04
East 116th St., 2892 — withdraw objection to transfer of stock — repeal Res. 970-11 —
Liquor Permit (R 1455-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 05
Brancatelli, Councilman Anthony — Congratulations (R 1505-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Ave., 3400 — new application — liquor permit (F 1487-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Ave., 3400 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1495-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave., 6117 — PPN 118-19-022 / 023 — Land Reutilization Program — John D. Henderson,
Jr., or designee (O 1480-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Grant — Ohio Dept. Of Development — Rehab of Victory Bldg. (7012
Euclid Ave.) — Contract — Garson Victory, LLC (O 1482-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jones, Donald Arthur “ D.J. “ — Condolence (R 1503-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1685
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 06
St. James A.M.E. Church/130th Session of The North Ohio A.M.E. Annual Conference Recognition (R 1512-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 07
Mosby, Lillie Margaret — Condolence (R 1502-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 08
Chester Ave., 5417 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1488-11) . . . . . . . . .
East 23rd St., East 25th St., East 25th Place & Payne Court — vacate a portion —
City Planning Commission (O 1342-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Request For Proposal Publication — neighborhood grocery store
(10505 St. Clair Ave.) (F 1486-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
King, Dr. Leonard T. — Congratulations (R 1506-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mccray, Evan — Condolence (R 1504-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1718

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1710
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1683
1684
1684
1684

October 19, 2011

The City Record

39

Ward 09
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 10
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 11
202nd Annual Convocation of The Grand Lodge of Ohio & Accepted Masons — Recognition
(R 1509-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
East 156th St., 807 — PPN 115-24-058 — Land Reutilization Program — Matthew Adkins
& Tenesha Thomas (O 1125-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 12
Amend Section 2 of Ord. No. 1368-10 — Selling PPN 132-03-008 (Southerly Portion) — Land
Reutilization Program — FBE Inc., (O 1481-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1685
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 13
Memphis Ave., 5741 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 982-11 — Liquor Permit
(R 1456-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 14
Delta Tau Delta Fraternity — Recognition (R 1511-11)
Fulton Rd., 3510 — Transfer Of Ownership Application
Phi Mu Sorority — Recognition (R 1510-11). . . . . . . . . . .
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . .

..........................
— Liquor Permit (F 1489-11)
..........................
..........................

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1684
1683
1684
1684

Ward 15
Meister, Joseph M. — Condolence (R 1499-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1683
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 16
Briggs Rd., — encroach right — of — way — maintaining back yard
parking area and fencing — James R. Watkins (O 1478-11) . . . .
Vukovic, Tracey — Condolence (R 1501-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

improvements & concrete
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 17
Crawford, Sr., Willie Alphonso — Condolence (R 1500-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 18
Lorain Ave., 13939 — withdrawing objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1153-11 — liquor permit
(R 1496-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1689
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Ward 19
Watterson, Andrew — Recognition (R 1508-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1684

Water Division
Utilities Department — Amendment to Contract No. 69504 — Woolpert, Inc. (GIS) (O 530-11) . .
Utilities Department — contracts — HSQ Technology for refurbish Scada (O 1100-11) . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — contracts — test, inspect, maintain, repair, enhance or replace
building protection systems (O 1216-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — contracts — various types of valves, actuators, and appurtenances —
(O 1293-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1706
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1707
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1709

Water Pollution Control Division
Utilities Department — contracts — test, inspect, maintain, repair, enhance or replace
building protection systems (O 1216-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1708

1719

