The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

February the Second, Two Thousand and Eleven

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney

Containing

PAGE

President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
43
43
44
45
46
46
46
46
47
52
52

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
Name Residence
1 Terrell H. Pruitt 3877 East 189th Street 44122
2 Zachary Reed 3734 East 149th Street 44120
3 Joe Cimperman P.O. Box 91688 44101
4 Kenneth L. Johnson 2948 Hampton Road 44120
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland 2369 East 36th Street 44105
6 Mamie J. Mitchell 12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712 44120
7 TJ Dow 7715 Decker Avenue 44103
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson 9024 Parkgate Avenue 44108
9 Kevin Conwell 10647 Ashbury Avenue 44106
10 Eugene R. Miller 13615 Kelso Avenue 44110
11 Michael D. Polensek 17855 Brian Avenue 44119
12 Anthony Brancatelli 6924 Ottawa Road 44105
13 Kevin J. Kelley 5904 Parkridge Avenue 44144
14 Brian J. Cummins 3104 Mapledale Avenue 44109
15 Matthew Zone 1228 West 69th Street 44102
16 Jay Westbrook 1278 West 103rd Street 44102
17 Dona Brady 1272 West Boulevard 44102
18 Martin J. Sweeney 3632 West 133rd Street 44111
19 Martin J. Keane 15907 Colletta Lane 44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – _________________, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Interim Director, Mural Building, 75
Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development – _______, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – _________, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director
Robert J. Triozzi; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lynn McLaughlin-Murray – Courtroom 12A
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan – Courtroom 13A
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2011

Vol. 98

No. 5069

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2011
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

MONDAY — Alternating

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL

9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Committee:
Cimperman,
Services
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Mitchell, Westbrook.

______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 31, 2011
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff, Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer, Valarie J. McCall, Chief
of Government Affairs, Chris Warren, Chief of Regional Development,
Andrew Watterson, Chief of Sustainability, Natoya J. Walker-Minor,
Chief of Public Affairs – Director of
Office of Equal Opportunity, and
Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Withers,
Smith, Flask, Cox, Rush, Rybka,
Nichols, Griffin, Brown, Fumich,
Lucille Ambroz, Secretary, Civil Service, Karen Butler, Interim Director
of Public Health, and Teresa Stevenson of Legislative Affairs.
Council Members, Administration,
Staff, and those in the audience rose
for a moment of silent reflection.
Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION

WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.

On the motion of Council Member
Zone, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member K. Johnson.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 151-11.
From: Deputy Clerk of Council:
Request for Proposal Publication —
Services to provide software solution and services to update, customize and implement City Council
website. Received.

87

File No. 152-11.
From: Ohio State Senator Tom
Sawyer — Re: acknowledgement
receipt of Resolution No. 1576-10, in
support of House Bill 75. Received.
File No. 153-11.
From: Director of the Department
of Port Control — Notification to
extend Contract No. 68843 with Landrum
and
Brown,
Incorporated.
Received.
File No. 154-11.
From Famicos Foundation — ManMember,
Doan
Classroom
aging
Apartments, 1350 East 105th Street,
(Ward 8) funding programs by Ohio
Housing Finance Agency. Public
Notification Letter. Received.
File No. 174-11.
From Office of Equal Opportunity
— Compliance Report Chapter 188,
December, 2010 Bi-Monthly Report.
Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 155-11.
Re: #3245918 — C1, C2 Transfer of
Location Application — Gold Star
Express, Inc., d.b.a. Gold Star Deli,
10813 St. Clair Avenue. (Ward 9).
Received.
File No. 156-11.
Re: #9087740 — D5A New Application — Tudor Arms Master Subtenant, LLC, 10660 Carnegie Avenue.
(Ward 9). Received.
File No. 157-11.
Re: #9427085 — C2 Additional
Class Application — Waterloo Gas
and Go, Inc. 15222 Waterloo Road.
(Ward 11). Received.
File No. 158-11.
Re: #6412873 — C1, C2 Stock
Application — NIHAAL, Inc., d.b.a.
Lakeshore Citgo, 15550 Lakeshore
Boulevard. (Ward 11). Received.
File No. 159-11.
Re: #0335638 — C1 Additional
Class
—
Heidi
Avancini,
d.b.a.
Stinks Bait Tackle and Convenience,
3259 West 25th Street. (Ward 14).
Received.
File No. 160-11.
Re: #3472884 — C, C2X Stock
Application — HRS Enterprises,
LLC, d.b.a. Rite Shop Food Mart,
3022 West 25th Street. (Ward 14).
Received.
File No. 161-11.
Re: #0049527 — C2 New Application — Adams Adams Puritas, LLC.,
14606 Puritas Avenue. (Ward 18).
Received.
File No. 162-11.
Re: #6430483 — C1, C2 Transfer of
Ownership Application — Nishkam

The City Record

4
One, Inc., d.b.a. The Pantry, 4677
West 130th Street, S/End. (Ward
18). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 163-11—Stanley M. Fisher.
Res. No. 164-11—Dargan J. Burns,
Jr.
Res.
No.
165-11—Julia
Mae
Matthews.
Res. No. 166-11—Allean (Varner)
Grayer.
Res. No. 167-11—Frazier Rufus
Blandon.
Res.
No.
168-11—Linda
Byrd
Solomon.
Res. No. 169-11—Eva Mae Loyd.
CONGRATULATIONS RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 170-11—Gloria Aron.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 171-11—Vietnamese Community In Greater Cleveland, Inc. —
(Vietnamese Lunar New Year).
Res. No. 172-11—Faith Perspectives on Immigration: an Interfaith
Seminar.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No.
173-11—St. Augustine
Church & Hunger Center.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 128-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$750,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to improve municipal cemetery
facilities, buildings, structures and
grounds and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Seven Hundred
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($750,000)
(the “Bonds”) to finance the costs of
certain permanent improvements
described in Section  1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with the
proceeds of the Bonds is at least five
years and that the maximum maturity of the Bonds is 20 years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and
as the same may further be amended
from time to time in accordance with
its provisions, is referred to as the

“General Bond Ordinance”), providing the general terms and provisions
for the issuance of unvoted general
obligations of the City, with the specific terms of each series of Bonds to
be contained in ordinances authorizing the issuance of Bonds in accordance with the provisions thereof
(the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary to
provide funds to pay the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 hereof that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose.
It is deemed necessary to issue the
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Seven Hundred
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($750,000) for
the purpose of providing funds to
improve municipal cemetery facilibuildings,
structures
and
ties,
grounds by constructing, reconstructing, installing, enlarging, renovating,
and rehabilitating buildings, structures and grounds, including clearing, grading and excavating land,
reconstructing, installing, renovating, and rehabilitating septic system,
drainage
and
sewer
facilities,
installing access roadways including
any necessary bridges and culverts,
installing utility lines, laying out and
numbering burial plots, constructing
and reconstructing retaining walls,
gates and fences, acquiring and
installing fences, gates, signage,
waste receptacles and other fixtures,
and planting and landscaping, together with all necessary and incidental
appurtenances and the acquisition of
any required real estate and interests
in real estate, and to pay any capitalized interest and all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the securities, including
all financing costs within the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of the Ohio
Revised Code and such other costs of
the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with the
proceeds of securities as permitted by
Section 133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Chapter 133
of the Ohio Revised Code and other
applicable provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code, the Charter of the City,
the General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section 1 hereof. The Bonds shall be
designated “Cemeteries Improvement
Bonds” and may contain such further
designation as provided in the certificate of award providing for the final
terms of the Bonds and the sale of the
Bonds signed by the Director of
Finance in accordance with this Ordinance (the “Certificate of Award”).
The Bonds shall be issued in one lot
as fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in the
principal amount specified in the Certificate of Award, which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section 1
hereof. The Bonds shall be dated the
date and shall bear interest from their

88

February 2, 2011
date until the principal amount is
paid at the rate or rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed seven percent (7%)
per year. Interest on the Bonds shall
be payable when due, or until the
principal amount is paid, semiannually as specified in the Certificate of
Award as the dates on which interest
on the Bonds shall be payable (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), beginning
on the date specified in the Certificate
of Award as the first Interest Payment Date.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as shall
be permitted by law and determined
by the Director of Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, based
on the written advice of a Financial
Advisor to be in the best interests of
the City, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be
no earlier than November 15, 2011 and
no later than December 31, 2013, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than 20 years from
that date which is 12 months prior to
the first date on which provision for
payment of principal is made, and
(iv) the principal amount thereof
shall be payable in annual installments such that the total principal
and interest payments on the Bonds
in any fiscal year in which principal
is payable is not more than three
times the amount of those payments
in any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in any
year may be issued as term bonds (the
“Term Bonds”), payable pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements as defined and further
described below. The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount redeemed,
plus interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Escrow Agent, currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided
below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined in
Section  3 hereof) for cancellation
Term Bonds in any aggregate princi-

February 2, 2011
pal amount and to receive a credit
against the then-current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City for
any Term Bonds. That option shall be
exercised by the City on or before the
forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, by
furnishing the Escrow Agent a certificate, signed by the Registrar, setting forth the extent of the credit to
be applied with respect to the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement. If the certificate is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corremandatory
redemption
sponding
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds that
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and cancelled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied theretofore as a credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and cancelled, shall be credited by the
Escrow Agent at 100% of the principal amount thereof against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation). Any excess of that
amount over the then-current Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
shall
be
credited
Requirement
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the option
of the City, in whole or in part on any
date, in integral multiples of $5,000,
on the optional redemption dates and
at the redemption prices (expressed
as a percentage of the principal
amount redeemed) specified in the
Certificate of Award, plus, in each
case, accrued interest to the redemption date. The first optional redemption date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment
Date, and the highest redemption
price shall not be greater than 102%
of the principal amount redeemed
plus accrued interest to the redemption date. Based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the best
interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, the Bonds, or portions thereof, to be redeemed optionally shall be selected by lot prior to
the selection by lot of the Bonds to be
redeemed on the same date by operation of the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to this paragraph
only upon written notice from the
Director of Finance to the Registrar.
That notice shall specify the redemption date and the principal amount of
each maturity of Bonds to be

The City Record
redeemed, and shall be given at least
45 days prior to the redemption date
or such shorter period as shall be
acceptable to the Registrar. There
shall be deposited with the Registrar
on or prior to the redemption date
funds sufficient to redeem at the
redemption
price
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice of
redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided in
the Certificate of Award, the City may
elect to purchase Bonds called for
optional redemption in lieu of redeeming those Bonds. That election shall
be exercised by written direction
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent.
That written direction shall state
whether all or less than all of the
Bonds called for optional redemption
are to be purchased by the City in lieu
of redemption, shall identify the
Bonds to be purchased by their maturity date and shall specify the principal amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for optional redemption are to be purchased in
lieu of redemption, the amount of
each maturity to be purchased shall
be in amounts of $5,000 or integral
multiples of $5,000. Any Bonds called
for optional redemption that are not
to be purchased shall be redeemed in
accordance with their redemption provisions. The purchase price of the
Bonds to be purchased in lieu of
redemption shall be equal to the principal of, any accrued but unpaid interest on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners of
the Bonds in addition to the notice of
redemption required by this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent, shall not purchase Bonds if sufficient moneys
have not been deposited with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, by the City for the purpose. On
or prior to the scheduled date for
optional redemption, the City may
rescind its direction to purchase the
Bonds in lieu of redemption by written notice from the Director of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. In the event that the
direction to purchase is rescinded, the
Bonds shall be redeemed on the
redemption date set forth in the notice
of redemption delivered to the owners
of the Bonds and in accordance with
the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding Bonds are called for redemption at one time (whether for redemption or purchase in lieu of redemption), they shall be called in the order
of maturities directed by the Director
of Finance. If fewer than all Bonds of
a single maturity are to be redeemed
or purchased in lieu of redemption,
the selection of Bonds to be redeemed
or purchased, or portions thereof in
amounts of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the
Registrar by lot in a manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of
a partial redemption or purchase of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of the
denomination of $5,000. If it is determined that one or more, but not all of
the $5,000 units of principal amount
represented by a Bond are to be called

89

5
for redemption, then upon notice of
redemption of a $5,000 unit or units,
the registered owner of that Bond
shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption
or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued to the date fixed for redemption and any premium), and (ii) for
issuance, without charge to the registered owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured portion of the Bond not
redeemed or purchased and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the amounts
due upon redemption are payable.
The notice shall be given by the Registrar on behalf of the City by mailing
a copy of the redemption notice by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, at
least 30 days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part at the registered owner’s address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close of
business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing and to any provider
of a Credit Support Instrument (as
defined in Section 15 hereof) for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Bond, however, shall not affect
the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond. Any notice
of redemption of any Bonds may specify that the redemption is contingent
on the deposit of moneys with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, on or prior to the redemption
date in an amount sufficient to pay
the redemption price of the Bonds to
be redeemed.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the manner provided in the preceding paragraph, and moneys having been
deposited by the City with the Escrow
Agent or Registrar, as paying agent,
in an amount sufficient to pay the
redemption price, the Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption
shall become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption
of all of the Bonds and portions thereof to be redeemed, including interest
accrued to the redemption date, is
held by the Registrar on the redemption date, and, if notice of redemption
has been deposited in the mail, then
from and after the redemption date
those Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on the
redemption date, or that notice shall
not have been deposited in the mail,
those Bonds and portions thereof
shall continue to bear interest, until
they are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money held
by the Registrar for the redemption of
particular Bonds shall be held in trust

6
for the account of the registered owners and shall be paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without
deduction for the services of the Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent. Principal shall be payable
when due upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds at the principal
corporate trust office of the Registrar. Interest on a Bond shall be paid
on each Interest Payment Date by
check or draft mailed to the person in
whose name the Bond was registered,
and to that person’s address appearing, on the Bond Register (as defined
in Section  3 hereof) at the close of
business on the date provided in the
Registrar Agreement authorized and
defined in Section  3 hereof (the
“Record Date”). Notwithstanding any
contrary provision in the General
Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds
are held by a Depository in a book
entry system (as described in Section  3 hereof), debt charges on the
Bonds will be payable in lawful
money of the United States by wire
transfer to the Depository made by
the Escrow Agent on each Interest
Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance. The General Bond Ordinance, except for the third paragraph
of Section 13(a) (pertaining generally to an adjustment of the interest
rate in an event of default) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 (pertaining generally to the periods during
which the City is not required to make
any transfers or exchanges of bonds
issued under the General Bond Ordinance), will apply to the Bonds.
Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance is included as a
part of this Ordinance as fully as if
restated in this Ordinance. Words and
terms not otherwise defined in this
Ordinance shall have the same meaning as set forth in the General Bond
Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of the
Bonds; Paying Agents.
The Bonds shall express upon their
faces the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section  4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by the
City’s Director of Finance, and, consistent with Section 133.27 of the Ohio
Revised Code and notwithstanding
Section  177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either or both of
those signatures may be a facsimile.
The Bonds shall bear the seal of the
City, which seal may be a facsimile
seal. Pursuant to Section  83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Bonds and shall
endorse thereon his approval of the
form and correctness thereof by his
manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, bond registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Bonds (the
“Registrar”). The Registrar shall also
act as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry system. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City, an
agreement between the City and the
Registrar (the “Registrar Agree-

The City Record
ment”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and payment of the Bonds on terms approved
by the Director of Finance on behalf
of the City and consistent with this
Ordinance and not substantially
adverse to the City. That approval
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance shall provide for
the payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Registrar
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Registrar to maintain and keep at its
principal corporate trust office all
books and records necessary for the
registration, exchange and transfer
of Bonds as provided in this Section
(the “Bond Register”). The person in
whose name a Bond is registered on
the Bond Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Bond for
all purposes of this Ordinance. Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Bond shall be made
only to or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Bond, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender
at the principal corporate trust office
of the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. A Bond may
be transferred only on the Bond Register upon presentation and surrender
of the Bond at the principal corporate
trust office of the Registrar together
with an assignment signed by the registered owner or by a person legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any tax or
other governmental charge required
to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or

90

February 2, 2011
transfer shall be valid obligations of
the City, evidencing the same debt,
and entitled to the same security and
benefit under this Ordinance, as the
surrendered
upon
that
Bonds
exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds and the principal of and interest on the Bonds may
be transferred only through a book
entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are
issued by the City only to a Depository or its nominee as registered owner,
with the Bonds “immobilized” in the
custody of the Depository. The book
entry maintained by others than the
City is the record that identifies the
owners of beneficial interests in those
Bonds and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York,
New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers,
banks and trust companies, and clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the Bonds
may be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Bond representing
each maturity and registered in the
name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository;
(ii) the beneficial owners in book
entry form shall have no right to
receive Bonds in the form of physical
securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book
entry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of beneficial interests
shall be made only by book entry by
the Depository and its Participants;
and (iv) the Bonds as such shall not
be transferable or exchangeable,
except for transfer to another Depository or to another nominee of a Depository, without further action by the
City.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Bonds for use in a book entry system,
the Director of Finance may attempt
to
establish
a
securities
depository/book entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or is
unable to do so, the Registrar, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Bonds from the
Depository, and the Trustee and Registrar shall authenticate and deliver
bond certificates in registered form to
the assigns of the Depository or its

February 2, 2011
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to the
extent necessary or required to enter
into any agreements determined necessary in connection with the book
entry system for the Bonds, after
determining that the signing thereof
will not endanger the funds or securities of the City and after the approval
of the form of any such agreement by
the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds.
The Bonds shall first be offered for
purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by
them, shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase and,
if not purchased for that Account,
shall be sold to one or more firms that
have proposed to underwrite the
Bonds and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to the
Original Purchaser in the Certificate
of Award which shall specify the
final terms of the Bonds in accordance with law, the provisions of this
Ordinance, the written advice of a
financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 16 hereof and the
Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Bonds, the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount of
the Bonds plus any accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), the Interest Payment
Dates and the date of the Bonds and
any other matters required in this
Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Law, Clerk of
Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of them
is, authorized to take such actions as
are necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for delivery of the Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and
certificates, to cause a true transcript
of proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to sign
and deliver on behalf of the City a
bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell the Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Bonds, which shall be consistent with
this Ordinance, not substantially
adverse to the City, and approved by

The City Record
the Director of Finance and Director
of Law on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by the Director
of Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in this
Ordinance and as may be provided in
or pursuant to the Certificate of
Award, are in the best interest of the
City and in compliance with all legal
requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds with
other bonds into a single consolidated
issue of bonds for purposes of their
sale as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation
Bonds, Series 2011” or such other designation as may be set forth in the
Certificate of Award. Such bonds
shall contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Bonds are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax.
For the purpose of providing the
necessary funds to pay the interest on
the Bonds promptly when and as the
same falls due, and also to provide for
the discharge of the Bonds at maturity, there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds are outstanding, in an amount
sufficient to provide for the payment
of that interest, when and as the same
shall fall due, and also to discharge
the principal of the Bonds at maturity, which tax shall not be less than
the interest and sinking fund tax
required by Section 11 of Article XII
of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered computed, certified, levied and extended
upon the tax duplicate and collected
by the same officers, in the same manner and at the same time that taxes
for general purposes for each of those
years are certified, extended and collected. The tax shall be placed before
and in preference to all other items
and for the full amount thereof. The
funds derived from those tax levies
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund as required by the General Bond Ordinance, and those funds,
together with the interest collected on
them, shall be irrevocably pledged for
the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds when and as the
same fall due; provided, however,
that, subject to the provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance,
in each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Bonds
and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of such tax shall be
reduced by the amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections  133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Ohio Revised Code, and in accordance with the provisions of and to
the extent required or permitted by
the General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt charges
for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds are

91

7
issued. The proceeds of the Bonds to
be applied to pay costs of any Credit
Support Instruments obtained pursuant to Section 15 hereof shall be
paid to the provider or providers of
those Credit Support Instruments.
The proceeds of the Bonds to be used
to pay costs of issuing the Bonds shall
be deposited with the Registrar in a
separate account under the Registrar
Agreement pending their application
to the payment of such costs. Pursuant to Chapter 133 of the Ohio
Revised Code and this Ordinance, and
notwithstanding Chapter 179 of the
Codified Ordinances, any accrued
interest and any premium received
from the sale of the Bonds shall be
deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation.
The Bonds are secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Bonds are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit of the City are
hereby pledged for the payment of the
principal of and interest on the Bonds
in accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid and
discharged all the outstanding Bonds,
or there shall otherwise be paid to the
holders of the outstanding Bonds all
debt charges due or to become due
thereon, and provision shall also be
made for paying all other sums
payable hereunder, then and in that
event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations of
the City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the request
of the City execute and deliver to the
City such instruments in writing as
shall discharge the lien hereof and
enter on the record such discharge of
the lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or subaccounts, in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold in
special accounts or subaccounts, in
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, direct obligations of
the United States certified by an independent public accounting firm of
national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and
committed, except as hereinafter pro-

8
vided), as will be sufficient, together
with moneys referred to in (i) above,
for the payment, at their maturities or
redemption dates, of all debt charges
on the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall have
occurred on such date then to the date
of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds are to be
redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall
have been duly given or irrevocable
provision satisfactory to the Trustee
shall have been duly made for the giving of such notice. Any moneys held
by the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient
to meet payment of debt charges on
the Bonds, as directed by the Director
of Finance. Any income or interest
earned by, or increment to, the investments held under this Section shall, to
the extent determined from time to
time by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this Section, be transferred at the time of
such determination as provided in
Section  17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent. In the event of
nonpresentment of any Bond as
described in Section 17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance, the moneys held
pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section  17(a) for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in Section 1 hereof, notes of the City may be
issued in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Seven Hundred
Fifty Thousand Dollars ($750,000)
(the “Notes”) upon the direction of the
Director of Finance to be set forth in a
certificate providing for the final
terms of the Notes and the sale of the
Notes and signed by the Director of
Finance (the  “Note Certificate of
Award”).
(a) Terms of the Notes. The Notes
shall bear interest at such rate, not
exceeding seven percent (7%) per
year, as may be fixed by the Director
of Finance of the City in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be dated their
date of issuance; shall mature on the
date set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award, which shall be no later than
five years from such date of issuance;
shall be subject to redemption by the
City at any time prior to maturity
without penalty, provided that, if the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
years following the date of issuance
of the Notes; shall be designated
“Cemeteries
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation Notes”; shall be issued in
such numbers and denominations as
may be requested by the Note Purchaser (hereinafter defined); and
shall be issued in fully registered
form (which may be in a book entry
only system) in denominations of
$5,000 or integral multiples thereof.
Interest shall be payable semiannually on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that if
the Notes mature on or before the end

The City Record
of the twelfth month following their
date of issuance, interest on the Notes
shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, registrar, transfer agent and
paying agent for the Notes (the “Note
Registrar”). The Escrow Agent also
shall act as paying agent for the
Notes if the Notes are held in a book
entry system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the “Note
Registrar Agreement”) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes on terms that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Note Registrar to maintain and keep
at its principal corporate trust office
all books and records necessary for
the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes as provided in this Section
(the “Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded as
the absolute owner of that Note for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Note shall be made only to or
upon the order of that person; neither
the City nor the Note Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Note, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination
upon presentation and surrender at
the principal corporate trust office of
the Note Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. A Note
may be transferred only on the Note
Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or by
a person legally empowered to do so
in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer the
Note
Registrar
shall
complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by
the owner equal in the aggregate to
the unmatured principal amount of
the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Note Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or

92

February 2, 2011
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Note Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Note Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Notes issued and authenticated upon any exchange or transfer shall be valid obligations of the
City, evidencing the same debt, and
entitled to the same security and benefit under this Ordinance, as the Notes
surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes with
other bond anticipation notes of the
City for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for
which the Notes are issued and shall
state that they are issued pursuant to
this Ordinance.
(b) Execution and Payment of the
Notes. The Notes shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which they
are issued and that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance. Each Note
shall be authenticated by the manual
signature of an authorized officer of
the Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance, and, consistent with Section
133.27 of the Ohio Revised Code and
notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City,
either or both of those signatures may
be a facsimile. The Notes shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Notes and
shall endorse thereon his approval of
the form and correctness thereof by
his manual or facsimile signature.
(c) Sale of the Notes. The Notes
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite the Notes and
have been selected by the Director of
Finance based on an evaluation of the
qualifications of those firms (the
“Note Purchaser”) in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director
of Finance (the  “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section 10
hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund and
used for the purpose for which the
Notes are being issued under the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Security for the Notes. The
Notes shall be the full general obligations of the City, and the full faith,
credit and revenue of the City are
hereby pledged for the prompt payment of the same. The par value to be
received from the sale of the Notes
and any excess funds resulting from
the issuance of the Notes shall, to the
extent necessary, be used for the
retirement of the Notes at maturity,
together with the interest thereon,
and are hereby pledged for such purpose.
Section 10. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax.
During the year or years while the
Notes are outstanding there shall be

February 2, 2011
levied on all the taxable property in
the City, in addition to all other taxes
but within tax limitations, a direct
tax annually not less than that which
would have been levied if bonds had
been issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general
purposes for each year are certified,
extended and collected. That tax
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the full
amount thereof. The funds derived
from the tax levies required by this
Ordinance shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, and those funds, together
with the interest collected on them,
shall be irrevocably pledged for the
payment of the principal and interest
of the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment of
the Notes and Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of
such direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance, a disclosure document
(each, an “Official Statement”) is
appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the Notes or the
Bonds, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare or cause to be
prepared on behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, and any necessary supplements
and to authorize the use and distribution of each Official Statement and
any supplements. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity each Official Statement and
any supplements approved by her.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity such
certificates in connection with the
accuracy of each Official Statement
and any supplements as may, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
be necessary or appropriate. The
Director of Finance is also authorized
to determine and certify on behalf of
the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by the City
within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”). The Director of
Finance is authorized to contract for
services for the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed
and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to prepare, or cause to be pre-

The City Record
pared, and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
disclosure
agreement
continuing
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, in accordance with the SEC Rule.
The performance of that agreement
shall be subject to the availability of
funds and their annual appropriation
to meet costs the City would be
required to incur to perform it. The
Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance
by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely
provision of information and notices.
Section 12. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance shall not apply to the Bonds or
the Notes authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance
are fully applicable to the Bonds and
the Notes authorized herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed
to alter or restrict such full application of the General Bond Ordinance,
except for the exclusion from application to the Bonds and the Notes authorized herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a) and
the third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance, pursuant to
Section 2 hereof.
Section 13. Captions.
The captions or headings in this
Ordinance are for convenience only
and in no way define, limit or describe
the scope or intent of any provisions
or sections of this Ordinance.
Section 14. Federal Tax Covenants.
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Notes and the Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds under
Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the “Code”) or (ii) be treated other
than as bonds to which Section 103(a)
of the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section 57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Notes and the
Bonds to be and to remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Notes and the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds,
(iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports, and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this Section
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds is also made with respect to all
issues any portion of the debt service
on which is paid from proceeds of the

93

9
Notes or the Bonds (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding
issues in a series of refundings), to
the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on
the Notes and the Bonds from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above
are authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this Section to take with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds as
the City is permitted or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elecprovided
for
in
tions
Section  148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section  148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts or
payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing
and signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf of
the City, as may be appropriate to
assure the exclusion of interest from
gross income and the intended tax
status of the Notes and the Bonds, and
(c) to give one or more appropriate
certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting forth
the reasonable expectations of the
City regarding the amount and use of
all the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 15. Credit Enhancement and
Ratings.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, the filing of an application for a rating on
the Bonds or designated portion
thereof by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies is in the best
interest of the City, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare and
submit those applications and to provide to each such agency such information as may be required for the purpose. The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for one or more
Credit Support Instruments for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof
if the Director determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that the Credit Support
Instruments will result in debt service savings to the City. As used in
this Section, “Credit Support Instrument” means an insurance policy,
surety, letter of credit, or other instrument used to enhance or provide for
the security of Bonds. The cost of
obtaining each rating and the cost of
obtaining each Credit Support Instru-

10
ment, except to the extent paid by the
Original Purchasers in accordance
with the Bond Purchase Agreement,
shall be paid from the proceeds of
Bonds or funds appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 16. Financial Advisor.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required by
this Ordinance to be determined by
the Director of Finance. The Director
of Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination.
It is found and determined that all
formal actions of this Council and of
any of its committees concerning and
relating to the passage of this Ordinance were taken, and that all deliberations of this Council and any of its
committees that resulted in these formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section  121.22 of
the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals of
Validity.
It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions
and things necessary to be done
precedent to and in the issuing of the
Bonds and the Notes in order to make
them legal, valid and binding obligations of the City have happened, been
done and been performed in regular
and due form as required by law; and
that no limitation of indebtedness or
taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes. It
is further found and determined, and
is hereby represented and recited,
that the provisions of Sections 28, 29,
32, 33 (including the provisions of Section  33 with respect to readings on
three separate days or dispensing
with such readings by a two-thirds
vote of all members of the Council),
36, 37, 48 and all other applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and the
rules of this Council have been fully
complied with and this Ordinance was
passed in conformity therewith.
Section 19. Delivery to County.
The Director of Finance is directed
to forward a certified copy of this
Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the appropriate official of the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio and to secure a receipt
therefor.
Section 20. Severability.
Each section and each part of each
section of this Ordinance is hereby
declared to be an independent section
or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be the
controlling legislative intent that if
any such section or part of a section
or any provision thereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of

The City Record
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 21. Legislative Intent.
All terms, conditions, pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority,
including its authority under its Charter and Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 22. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 129-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$2,095,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to improve municipal parks and
recreation facilities and authorizing
related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Two Million
Ninety-Five
Thousand
Dollars
($2,095,000) (the “Bonds”) to finance
the costs of certain permanent
improvements described in Section 1
of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”);
and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with the
proceeds of the Bonds is at least five
years and that the maximum maturity of the Bonds is 26 years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and
as the same may further be amended
from time to time in accordance with
its provisions, is referred to as the
“General Bond Ordinance”), providing the general terms and provisions
for the issuance of unvoted general
obligations of the City, with the specific terms of each series of Bonds to
be contained in ordinances authorizing the issuance of Bonds in accordance with the provisions thereof
(the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary to

94

February 2, 2011
provide funds to pay the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 hereof that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose.
It is deemed necessary to issue the
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Two Million
Ninety-Five
Thousand
Dollars
($2,095,000) for the purpose of providing funds to municipal parks and
recreation facilities by constructing,
rehabilitating,
reconstructing,
installing, renovating, enlarging,
redeveloping and otherwise improving parks and recreation centers and
areas, pools, skating rinks, greenhouses, bicycle paths, playgrounds,
playfields, tracks, fields and related
buildings,
structures,
walkways,
pavement, plazas, landscaping and
facilities, and providing necessary
water systems, drainage, lighting,
signage, fixtures, furnishings, equipment, safety modifications and site
improvements, together with all necessary and incidental appurtenances
and the acquisition of any required
real estate and interests in real estate
and the demolition of any existing
buildings, structures, walkways and
facilities, and to pay any capitalized
interest and all expenses incurred in
connection with the issuance of the
securities, including all financing
costs within the meaning of Section  133.01(K) of the Ohio Revised
Code and such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that
may be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section  133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Chapter 133
of the Ohio Revised Code and other
applicable provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code, the Charter of the City,
the General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section 1 hereof. The Bonds shall be
designated “Parks and Recreation
Facilities Improvement Bonds” and
may contain such further designation
as provided in the certificate of award
providing for the final terms of the
Bonds and the sale of the Bonds
signed by the Director of Finance in
accordance with this Ordinance (the
“Certificate of Award”). The Bonds
shall be issued in one lot as fully registered Bonds in denominations of
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in the
principal amount specified in the Certificate of Award, which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section 1
hereof. The Bonds shall be dated the
date and shall bear interest from their
date until the principal amount is
paid at the rate or rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed seven percent (7%)
per year. Interest on the Bonds shall
be payable when due, or until the
principal amount is paid, semiannual-

February 2, 2011
ly as specified in the Certificate of
Award as the dates on which interest
on the Bonds shall be payable (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), beginning
on the date specified in the Certificate
of Award as the first Interest Payment Date.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as shall
be permitted by law and determined
by the Director of Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, based
on the written advice of a Financial
Advisor to be in the best interests of
the City, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be
no earlier than November 15, 2011 and
no later than December 31, 2013, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than 26 years from
that date which is 12 months prior to
the first date on which provision for
payment of principal is made, and
(iv) the principal amount thereof
shall be payable in annual installments such that the total principal
and interest payments on the Bonds
in any fiscal year in which principal
is payable is not more than three
times the amount of those payments
in any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in any
year may be issued as term bonds (the
“Term Bonds”), payable pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements as defined and further
described below. The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount redeemed,
plus interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Escrow Agent, currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided
below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined in
Section  3 hereof) for cancellation
Term Bonds in any aggregate principal amount and to receive a credit
against the then-current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City for
any Term Bonds. That option shall be
exercised by the City on or before the
forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, by
furnishing the Escrow Agent a certificate, signed by the Registrar, set-

The City Record
ting forth the extent of the credit to
be applied with respect to the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement. If the certificate is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
corresponding
mandatory
(and
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds that
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and cancelled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied theretofore as a credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and cancelled, shall be credited by the
Escrow Agent at 100% of the principal amount thereof against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation). Any excess of that
amount over the then-current MandaSinking
Fund
Redemption
tory
shall
be
credited
Requirement
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the option
of the City, in whole or in part on any
date, in integral multiples of $5,000,
on the optional redemption dates and
at the redemption prices (expressed
as a percentage of the principal
amount redeemed) specified in the
Certificate of Award, plus, in each
case, accrued interest to the redemption date. The first optional redemption date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment
Date, and the highest redemption
price shall not be greater than 102%
of the principal amount redeemed
plus accrued interest to the redemption date. Based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the best
interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, the Bonds, or portions thereof, to be redeemed optionally shall be selected by lot prior to
the selection by lot of the Bonds to be
redeemed on the same date by operation of the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to this paragraph
only upon written notice from the
Director of Finance to the Registrar.
That notice shall specify the redemption date and the principal amount of
each maturity of Bonds to be
redeemed, and shall be given at least
45 days prior to the redemption date
or such shorter period as shall be
acceptable to the Registrar. There
shall be deposited with the Registrar
on or prior to the redemption date
funds sufficient to redeem at the
redemption
price
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice of
redemption has been given.

95

11
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided in
the Certificate of Award, the City may
elect to purchase Bonds called for
optional redemption in lieu of redeeming those Bonds. That election shall
be exercised by written direction
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent.
That written direction shall state
whether all or less than all of the
Bonds called for optional redemption
are to be purchased by the City in lieu
of redemption, shall identify the
Bonds to be purchased by their maturity date and shall specify the principal amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for optional redemption are to be purchased in
lieu of redemption, the amount of
each maturity to be purchased shall
be in amounts of $5,000 or integral
multiples of $5,000. Any Bonds called
for optional redemption that are not
to be purchased shall be redeemed in
accordance with their redemption provisions. The purchase price of the
Bonds to be purchased in lieu of
redemption shall be equal to the principal of, any accrued but unpaid interest on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners of
the Bonds in addition to the notice of
redemption required by this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent, shall not purchase Bonds if sufficient moneys
have not been deposited with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, by the City for the purpose. On
or prior to the scheduled date for
optional redemption, the City may
rescind its direction to purchase the
Bonds in lieu of redemption by written notice from the Director of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. In the event that the
direction to purchase is rescinded, the
Bonds shall be redeemed on the
redemption date set forth in the notice
of redemption delivered to the owners
of the Bonds and in accordance with
the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding Bonds are called for redemption at one time (whether for redemption or purchase in lieu of redemption), they shall be called in the order
of maturities directed by the Director
of Finance. If fewer than all Bonds of
a single maturity are to be redeemed
or purchased in lieu of redemption,
the selection of Bonds to be redeemed
or purchased, or portions thereof in
amounts of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the
Registrar by lot in a manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of
a partial redemption or purchase of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of the
denomination of $5,000. If it is determined that one or more, but not all of
the $5,000 units of principal amount
represented by a Bond are to be called
for redemption, then upon notice of
redemption of a $5,000 unit or units,
the registered owner of that Bond
shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption
or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued to the date fixed for redemption and any premium), and (ii) for

12
issuance, without charge to the registered owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured portion of the Bond not
redeemed or purchased and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the amounts
due upon redemption are payable.
The notice shall be given by the Registrar on behalf of the City by mailing
a copy of the redemption notice by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, at
least 30 days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part at the registered owner’s address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close of
business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing and to any provider
of a Credit Support Instrument (as
defined in Section 15 hereof) for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Bond, however, shall not affect
the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond. Any notice
of redemption of any Bonds may specify that the redemption is contingent
on the deposit of moneys with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, on or prior to the redemption
date in an amount sufficient to pay
the redemption price of the Bonds to
be redeemed.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the manner provided in the preceding paragraph, and moneys having been
deposited by the City with the Escrow
Agent or Registrar, as paying agent,
in an amount sufficient to pay the
redemption price, the Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption
shall become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption
of all of the Bonds and portions thereof to be redeemed, including interest
accrued to the redemption date, is
held by the Registrar on the redemption date, and, if notice of redemption
has been deposited in the mail, then
from and after the redemption date
those Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on the
redemption date, or that notice shall
not have been deposited in the mail,
those Bonds and portions thereof
shall continue to bear interest, until
they are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money held
by the Registrar for the redemption of
particular Bonds shall be held in trust
for the account of the registered owners and shall be paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without
deduction for the services of the Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent. Principal shall be payable

The City Record
when due upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds at the principal
corporate trust office of the Registrar. Interest on a Bond shall be paid
on each Interest Payment Date by
check or draft mailed to the person in
whose name the Bond was registered,
and to that person’s address appearing, on the Bond Register (as defined
in Section  3 hereof) at the close of
business on the date provided in the
Registrar Agreement authorized and
defined in Section  3 hereof (the
“Record Date”). Notwithstanding any
contrary provision in the General
Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds
are held by a Depository in a book
entry system (as described in Section  3 hereof), debt charges on the
Bonds will be payable in lawful
money of the United States by wire
transfer to the Depository made by
the Escrow Agent on each Interest
Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance. The General Bond Ordinance, except for the third paragraph
of Section 13(a) (pertaining generally to an adjustment of the interest
rate in an event of default) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 (pertaining generally to the periods during
which the City is not required to make
any transfers or exchanges of bonds
issued under the General Bond Ordinance), will apply to the Bonds.
Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance is included as a
part of this Ordinance as fully as if
restated in this Ordinance. Words and
terms not otherwise defined in this
Ordinance shall have the same meaning as set forth in the General Bond
Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of the
Bonds; Paying Agents.
The Bonds shall express upon their
faces the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section  4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by the
City’s Director of Finance, and, consistent with Section 133.27 of the Ohio
Revised Code and notwithstanding
Section  177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either or both of
those signatures may be a facsimile.
The Bonds shall bear the seal of the
City, which seal may be a facsimile
seal. Pursuant to Section  83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Bonds and shall
endorse thereon his approval of the
form and correctness thereof by his
manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, bond registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Bonds (the
“Registrar”). The Registrar shall also
act as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry system. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City, an
agreement between the City and the
Registrar (the “Registrar Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and payment of the Bonds on terms approved
by the Director of Finance on behalf
of the City and consistent with this
Ordinance and not substantially
adverse to the City. That approval
shall be conclusively evidenced by

96

February 2, 2011
the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance shall provide for
the payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Registrar
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Registrar to maintain and keep at its
principal corporate trust office all
books and records necessary for the
registration, exchange and transfer
of Bonds as provided in this Section
(the “Bond Register”). The person in
whose name a Bond is registered on
the Bond Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Bond for
all purposes of this Ordinance. Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Bond shall be made
only to or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Bond, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender
at the principal corporate trust office
of the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. A Bond may
be transferred only on the Bond Register upon presentation and surrender
of the Bond at the principal corporate
trust office of the Registrar together
with an assignment signed by the registered owner or by a person legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any tax or
other governmental charge required
to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid obligations of
the City, evidencing the same debt,
and entitled to the same security and
benefit under this Ordinance, as the
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the

February 2, 2011
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds and the principal of and interest on the Bonds may
be transferred only through a book
entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are
issued by the City only to a Depository or its nominee as registered owner,
with the Bonds “immobilized” in the
custody of the Depository. The book
entry maintained by others than the
City is the record that identifies the
owners of beneficial interests in those
Bonds and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York,
New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers,
banks and trust companies, and clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the Bonds
may be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Bond representing
each maturity and registered in the
name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository;
(ii) the beneficial owners in book
entry form shall have no right to
receive Bonds in the form of physical
securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book
entry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of beneficial interests
shall be made only by book entry by
the Depository and its Participants;
and (iv) the Bonds as such shall not
be transferable or exchangeable,
except for transfer to another Depository or to another nominee of a Depository, without further action by the
City.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Bonds for use in a book entry system,
the Director of Finance may attempt
to
establish
a
securities
depository/book entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or is
unable to do so, the Registrar, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Bonds from the
Depository, and the Trustee and Registrar shall authenticate and deliver
bond certificates in registered form to
the assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to the
extent necessary or required to enter
into any agreements determined necessary in connection with the book

The City Record
entry system for the Bonds, after
determining that the signing thereof
will not endanger the funds or securities of the City and after the approval
of the form of any such agreement by
the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds.
The Bonds shall first be offered for
purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by
them, shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase and,
if not purchased for that Account,
shall be sold to one or more firms that
have proposed to underwrite the
Bonds and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to the
Original Purchaser in the Certificate
of Award which shall specify the
final terms of the Bonds in accordance with law, the provisions of this
Ordinance, the written advice of a
financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 16 hereof and the
Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Bonds, the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount of
the Bonds plus any accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), the Interest Payment
Dates and the date of the Bonds and
any other matters required in this
Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Law, Clerk of
Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of them
is, authorized to take such actions as
are necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for delivery of the Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and
certificates, to cause a true transcript
of proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to sign
and deliver on behalf of the City a
bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell the Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Bonds, which shall be consistent with
this Ordinance, not substantially
adverse to the City, and approved by
the Director of Finance and Director
of Law on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by the Director
of Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in this
Ordinance and as may be provided in
or pursuant to the Certificate of
Award, are in the best interest of the

97

13
City and in compliance with all legal
requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds with
other bonds into a single consolidated
issue of bonds for purposes of their
sale as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation
Bonds, Series 2011” or such other designation as may be set forth in the
Certificate of Award. Such bonds
shall contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Bonds are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax.
For the purpose of providing the
necessary funds to pay the interest on
the Bonds promptly when and as the
same falls due, and also to provide for
the discharge of the Bonds at maturity, there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds are outstanding, in an amount
sufficient to provide for the payment
of that interest, when and as the same
shall fall due, and also to discharge
the principal of the Bonds at maturity, which tax shall not be less than
the interest and sinking fund tax
required by Section 11 of Article XII
of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered computed, certified, levied and extended
upon the tax duplicate and collected
by the same officers, in the same manner and at the same time that taxes
for general purposes for each of those
years are certified, extended and collected. The tax shall be placed before
and in preference to all other items
and for the full amount thereof. The
funds derived from those tax levies
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund as required by the General Bond Ordinance, and those funds,
together with the interest collected on
them, shall be irrevocably pledged for
the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds when and as the
same fall due; provided, however,
that, subject to the provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance,
in each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Bonds
and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of such tax shall be
reduced by the amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections  133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Ohio Revised Code, and in accordance with the provisions of and to
the extent required or permitted by
the General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt charges
for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds are
issued. The proceeds of the Bonds to
be applied to pay costs of any Credit
Support Instruments obtained pursuant to Section 15 hereof shall be
paid to the provider or providers of
those Credit Support Instruments.
The proceeds of the Bonds to be used
to pay costs of issuing the Bonds shall
be deposited with the Registrar in a
separate account under the Registrar

14
Agreement pending their application
to the payment of such costs. Pursuant to Chapter 133 of the Ohio
Revised Code and this Ordinance, and
notwithstanding Chapter 179 of the
Codified Ordinances, any accrued
interest and any premium received
from the sale of the Bonds shall be
deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation.
The Bonds are secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Bonds are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit of the City are
hereby pledged for the payment of the
principal of and interest on the Bonds
in accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid and
discharged all the outstanding Bonds,
or there shall otherwise be paid to the
holders of the outstanding Bonds all
debt charges due or to become due
thereon, and provision shall also be
made for paying all other sums
payable hereunder, then and in that
event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations of
the City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the request
of the City execute and deliver to the
City such instruments in writing as
shall discharge the lien hereof and
enter on the record such discharge of
the lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or subaccounts, in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold in
special accounts or subaccounts, in
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, direct obligations of
the United States certified by an independent public accounting firm of
national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and
committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together
with moneys referred to in (i) above,
for the payment, at their maturities or
redemption dates, of all debt charges
on the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall have
occurred on such date then to the date
of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds are to be

The City Record
redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall
have been duly given or irrevocable
provision satisfactory to the Trustee
shall have been duly made for the giving of such notice. Any moneys held
by the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient
to meet payment of debt charges on
the Bonds, as directed by the Director
of Finance. Any income or interest
earned by, or increment to, the investments held under this Section shall, to
the extent determined from time to
time by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this Section, be transferred at the time of
such determination as provided in
Section  17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent. In the event of
nonpresentment of any Bond as
described in Section 17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance, the moneys held
pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section  17(a) for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent.
9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in Section 1 hereof, notes of the City may be
issued in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Two Million
Thousand
Dollars
Ninety-Five
($2,095,000) (the “Notes”) upon the
direction of the Director of Finance to
be set forth in a certificate providing
for the final terms of the Notes and
the sale of the Notes and signed by the
Director of Finance (the “Note Certificate of Award”).
(a) Terms of the Notes. The Notes
shall bear interest at such rate, not
exceeding seven percent (7%) per
year, as may be fixed by the Director
of Finance of the City in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be dated their
date of issuance; shall mature on the
date set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award, which shall be no later than
five years from such date of issuance;
shall be subject to redemption by the
City at any time prior to maturity
without penalty, provided that, if the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
years following the date of issuance
of the Notes; shall be designated
“Parks and Recreation Facilities
Improvement
Bond
Anticipation
Notes”; shall be issued in such numbers and denominations as may be
requested by the Note Purchaser
(hereinafter defined); and shall be
issued in fully registered form (which
may be in a book entry only system)
in denominations of $5,000 or integral
multiples thereof. Interest shall be
payable semiannually on the dates
set forth in the Note Certificate of
Award; provided that if the Notes
mature on or before the end of the
twelfth month following their date of
issuance, interest on the Notes shall
be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, registrar, transfer agent and
paying agent for the Notes (the “Note
Registrar”). The Escrow Agent also
shall act as paying agent for the

98

February 2, 2011
Notes if the Notes are held in a book
entry system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the “Note
Registrar Agreement”) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes on terms that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Note Registrar to maintain and keep
at its principal corporate trust office
all books and records necessary for
the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes as provided in this Section
(the “Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded as
the absolute owner of that Note for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Note shall be made only to or
upon the order of that person; neither
the City nor the Note Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Note, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination
upon presentation and surrender at
the principal corporate trust office of
the Note Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. A Note
may be transferred only on the Note
Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or by
a person legally empowered to do so
in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer the
Note
Registrar
shall
complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by
the owner equal in the aggregate to
the unmatured principal amount of
the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Note Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Note Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Note Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the pro-

February 2, 2011
cedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Notes issued and authenticated upon any exchange or transfer shall be valid obligations of the
City, evidencing the same debt, and
entitled to the same security and benefit under this Ordinance, as the Notes
surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes with
other bond anticipation notes of the
City for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for
which the Notes are issued and shall
state that they are issued pursuant to
this Ordinance.
(b) Execution and Payment of the
Notes. The Notes shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which they
are issued and that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance. Each Note
shall be authenticated by the manual
signature of an authorized officer of
the Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance, and, consistent with Section
133.27 of the Ohio Revised Code and
notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City,
either or both of those signatures may
be a facsimile. The Notes shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Notes and
shall endorse thereon his approval of
the form and correctness thereof by
his manual or facsimile signature.
(c) Sale of the Notes. The Notes
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite the Notes and
have been selected by the Director of
Finance based on an evaluation of the
qualifications of those firms (the
“Note Purchaser”) in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director
of Finance (the  “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section 10
hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund and
used for the purpose for which the
Notes are being issued under the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Security for the Notes. The
Notes shall be the full general obligations of the City, and the full faith,
credit and revenue of the City are
hereby pledged for the prompt payment of the same. The par value to be
received from the sale of the Notes
and any excess funds resulting from
the issuance of the Notes shall, to the
extent necessary, be used for the
retirement of the Notes at maturity,
together with the interest thereon,
and are hereby pledged for such purpose.
Section 10. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax.
During the year or years while the
Notes are outstanding there shall be
levied on all the taxable property in
the City, in addition to all other taxes
but within tax limitations, a direct
tax annually not less than that which
would have been levied if bonds had
been issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,

The City Record
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general
purposes for each year are certified,
extended and collected. That tax
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the full
amount thereof. The funds derived
from the tax levies required by this
Ordinance shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, and those funds, together
with the interest collected on them,
shall be irrevocably pledged for the
payment of the principal and interest
of the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment of
the Notes and Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of
such direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance, a disclosure document
(each, an “Official Statement”) is
appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the Notes or the
Bonds, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare or cause to be
prepared on behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, and any necessary supplements
and to authorize the use and distribution of each Official Statement and
any supplements. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity each Official Statement and
any supplements approved by her.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity such
certificates in connection with the
accuracy of each Official Statement
and any supplements as may, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
be necessary or appropriate. The
Director of Finance is also authorized
to determine and certify on behalf of
the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by the City
within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”). The Director of
Finance is authorized to contract for
services for the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed
and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may

99

15
be, in accordance with the SEC Rule.
The performance of that agreement
shall be subject to the availability of
funds and their annual appropriation
to meet costs the City would be
required to incur to perform it. The
Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance
by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely
provision of information and notices.
Section 12. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance shall not apply to the Bonds or
the Notes authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance
are fully applicable to the Bonds and
the Notes authorized herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed
to alter or restrict such full application of the General Bond Ordinance,
except for the exclusion from application to the Bonds and the Notes authorized herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a) and
the third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance, pursuant to
Section 2 hereof.
Section 13. Captions.
The captions or headings in this
Ordinance are for convenience only
and in no way define, limit or describe
the scope or intent of any provisions
or sections of this Ordinance.
Section 14. Federal Tax Covenants.
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Notes and the Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds under
Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the “Code”) or (ii) be treated other
than as bonds to which Section 103(a)
of the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section 57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Notes and the
Bonds to be and to remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Notes and the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds,
(iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports, and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this Section
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds is also made with respect to all
issues any portion of the debt service
on which is paid from proceeds of the
Notes or the Bonds (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding
issues in a series of refundings), to
the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on
the Notes and the Bonds from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above

16
are authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this Section to take with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds as
the City is permitted or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elecprovided
for
in
tions
Section  148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section  148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts or
payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing
and signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf of
the City, as may be appropriate to
assure the exclusion of interest from
gross income and the intended tax
status of the Notes and the Bonds, and
(c) to give one or more appropriate
certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting forth
the reasonable expectations of the
City regarding the amount and use of
all the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 15. Credit Enhancement and
Ratings.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, the filing of an application for a rating on
the Bonds or designated portion
thereof by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies is in the best
interest of the City, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare and
submit those applications and to provide to each such agency such information as may be required for the purpose. The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for one or more
Credit Support Instruments for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof
if the Director determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that the Credit Support
Instruments will result in debt service savings to the City. As used in
this Section,
“Credit
Support
Instrument” means an insurance policy, surety, letter of credit, or other
instrument used to enhance or provide for the security of Bonds. The
cost of obtaining each rating and the
cost of obtaining each Credit Support
Instrument, except to the extent paid
by the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Bond Purchase Agreement, shall be paid from the proceeds
of Bonds or funds appropriated for
that purpose.
Section 16. Financial Advisor.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more financial

The City Record
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required by
this Ordinance to be determined by
the Director of Finance. The Director
of Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination.
It is found and determined that all
formal actions of this Council and of
any of its committees concerning and
relating to the passage of this Ordinance were taken, and that all deliberations of this Council and any of its
committees that resulted in these formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section  121.22 of
the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals of
Validity.
It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions
and things necessary to be done
precedent to and in the issuing of the
Bonds and the Notes in order to make
them legal, valid and binding obligations of the City have happened, been
done and been performed in regular
and due form as required by law; and
that no limitation of indebtedness or
taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes. It
is further found and determined, and
is hereby represented and recited,
that the provisions of Sections 28, 29,
32, 33 (including the provisions of Section  33 with respect to readings on
three separate days or dispensing
with such readings by a two-thirds
vote of all members of the Council),
36, 37, 48 and all other applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and the
rules of this Council have been fully
complied with and this Ordinance was
passed in conformity therewith.
Section 19. Delivery to County.
The Director of Finance is directed
to forward a certified copy of this
Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the appropriate official of the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio and to secure a receipt
therefor.
Section 20. Severability.
Each section and each part of each
section of this Ordinance is hereby
declared to be an independent section
or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be the
controlling legislative intent that if
any such section or part of a section
or any provision thereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 21. Legislative Intent.
All terms, conditions, pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority,

100

February 2, 2011
including its authority under its Charter and Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 22. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 130-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$15,155,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve the municipal
street system and related facilities
and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Fifteen Million
One Hundred Fifty-Five Thousand
Dollars ($15,155,000) (the “Bonds”) to
finance the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section  1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that
the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with the
proceeds of the Bonds is at least five
years and that the maximum maturity of the Bonds is 18 years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and
as the same may further be amended
from time to time in accordance with
its provisions, is referred to as the
“General Bond Ordinance”), providing the general terms and provisions
for the issuance of unvoted general
obligations of the City, with the specific terms of each series of Bonds to
be contained in ordinances authorizing the issuance of Bonds in accordance with the provisions thereof
(the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary to
provide funds to pay the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 hereof that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,

February 2, 2011
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose.
It is deemed necessary to issue the
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Fifteen Million
One Hundred Fifty-Five Thousand
Dollars ($15,155,000) for the purpose
of providing funds to improve the
municipal street system and related
facilities, including streets, expressways, roadways, driveways, underground vaults, sidewalks, bikeways
and walkways, by acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, opening,
extending, widening, grading, draining, paving, resurfacing, lighting and
curbing, removing or reconstructing
underground vaults to preserve the
public right of way, installing gutters, sidewalks and related pedestrian improvements, constructing and
improving culverts, resetting and
constructing catch basins and other
storm drainage facilities, constructing, reconstructing, replacing, renovating and rehabilitating bridges,
acquiring any real estate and interests in real estate, including easements, necessary for such purpose,
and installing signs, signals, markings and other devices for traffic control purposes, together with all necessary and incidental appurtenances,
and to pay any capitalized interest
and all expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the securities, including all financing costs
the
meaning
of
Secwithin
tion  133.01(K) of the Ohio Revised
Code and such other costs of the foregoing permanent improvements that
may be financed with the proceeds of
securities as permitted by Section  133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Chapter 133
of the Ohio Revised Code and other
applicable provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code, the Charter of the City,
the General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section 1 hereof. The Bonds shall be
designated “Bridges and Roadways
Improvement Bonds” and may contain such further designation as provided in the certificate of award providing for the final terms of the Bonds
and the sale of the Bonds signed by
the Director of Finance in accordance
with this Ordinance (the “Certificate
of Award”). The Bonds shall be issued
in one lot as fully registered Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in the
principal amount specified in the Certificate of Award, which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section 1
hereof. The Bonds shall be dated the
date and shall bear interest from their
date until the principal amount is
paid at the rate or rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed seven percent (7%)
per year. Interest on the Bonds shall
be payable when due, or until the
principal amount is paid, semiannually as specified in the Certificate of
Award as the dates on which interest
on the Bonds shall be payable (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), beginning

The City Record
on the date specified in the Certificate
of Award as the first Interest Payment Date.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as shall
be permitted by law and determined
by the Director of Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, based
on the written advice of a Financial
Advisor to be in the best interests of
the City, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be
no earlier than November 15, 2011 and
no later than December 31, 2013, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than 18 years from
that date which is 12 months prior to
the first date on which provision for
payment of principal is made, and
(iv) the principal amount thereof
shall be payable in annual installments such that the total principal
and interest payments on the Bonds
in any fiscal year in which principal
is payable is not more than three
times the amount of those payments
in any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in any
year may be issued as term bonds (the
“Term Bonds”), payable pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements as defined and further
described below. The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount redeemed,
plus interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Escrow Agent, currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided
below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined in
Section  3 hereof) for cancellation
Term Bonds in any aggregate principal amount and to receive a credit
against the then-current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City for
any Term Bonds. That option shall be
exercised by the City on or before the
forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, by
furnishing the Escrow Agent a certificate, signed by the Registrar, setting forth the extent of the credit to
be applied with respect to the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement. If the cer-

101

17
tificate is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corremandatory
redemption
sponding
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds that
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and cancelled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied theretofore as a credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and cancelled, shall be credited by the
Escrow Agent at 100% of the principal amount thereof against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation). Any excess of that
amount over the then-current Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
shall
be
credited
Requirement
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the option
of the City, in whole or in part on any
date, in integral multiples of $5,000,
on the optional redemption dates and
at the redemption prices (expressed
as a percentage of the principal
amount redeemed) specified in the
Certificate of Award, plus, in each
case, accrued interest to the redemption date. The first optional redemption date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment
Date, and the highest redemption
price shall not be greater than 102%
of the principal amount redeemed
plus accrued interest to the redemption date. Based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the best
interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, the Bonds, or portions thereof, to be redeemed optionally shall be selected by lot prior to
the selection by lot of the Bonds to be
redeemed on the same date by operation of the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to this paragraph
only upon written notice from the
Director of Finance to the Registrar.
That notice shall specify the redemption date and the principal amount of
each maturity of Bonds to be
redeemed, and shall be given at least
45 days prior to the redemption date
or such shorter period as shall be
acceptable to the Registrar. There
shall be deposited with the Registrar
on or prior to the redemption date
funds sufficient to redeem at the
redemption
price
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice of
redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided in
the Certificate of Award, the City may
elect to purchase Bonds called for
optional redemption in lieu of redeem-

18
ing those Bonds. That election shall
be exercised by written direction
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent.
That written direction shall state
whether all or less than all of the
Bonds called for optional redemption
are to be purchased by the City in lieu
of redemption, shall identify the
Bonds to be purchased by their maturity date and shall specify the principal amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for optional redemption are to be purchased in
lieu of redemption, the amount of
each maturity to be purchased shall
be in amounts of $5,000 or integral
multiples of $5,000. Any Bonds called
for optional redemption that are not
to be purchased shall be redeemed in
accordance with their redemption provisions. The purchase price of the
Bonds to be purchased in lieu of
redemption shall be equal to the principal of, any accrued but unpaid interest on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners of
the Bonds in addition to the notice of
redemption required by this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent, shall not purchase Bonds if sufficient moneys
have not been deposited with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, by the City for the purpose. On
or prior to the scheduled date for
optional redemption, the City may
rescind its direction to purchase the
Bonds in lieu of redemption by written notice from the Director of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. In the event that the
direction to purchase is rescinded, the
Bonds shall be redeemed on the
redemption date set forth in the notice
of redemption delivered to the owners
of the Bonds and in accordance with
the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding Bonds are called for redemption at one time (whether for redemption or purchase in lieu of redemption), they shall be called in the order
of maturities directed by the Director
of Finance. If fewer than all Bonds of
a single maturity are to be redeemed
or purchased in lieu of redemption,
the selection of Bonds to be redeemed
or purchased, or portions thereof in
amounts of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the
Registrar by lot in a manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of
a partial redemption or purchase of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of the
denomination of $5,000. If it is determined that one or more, but not all of
the $5,000 units of principal amount
represented by a Bond are to be called
for redemption, then upon notice of
redemption of a $5,000 unit or units,
the registered owner of that Bond
shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption
or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued to the date fixed for redemption and any premium), and (ii) for
issuance, without charge to the registered owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the

The City Record
unmatured portion of the Bond not
redeemed or purchased and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the amounts
due upon redemption are payable.
The notice shall be given by the Registrar on behalf of the City by mailing
a copy of the redemption notice by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, at
least 30 days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part at the registered owner’s address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close of
business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing and to any provider
of a Credit Support Instrument (as
defined in Section 15 hereof) for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Bond, however, shall not affect
the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond. Any notice
of redemption of any Bonds may specify that the redemption is contingent
on the deposit of moneys with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, on or prior to the redemption
date in an amount sufficient to pay
the redemption price of the Bonds to
be redeemed.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the manner provided in the preceding paragraph, and moneys having been
deposited by the City with the Escrow
Agent or Registrar, as paying agent,
in an amount sufficient to pay the
redemption price, the Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption
shall become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption
of all of the Bonds and portions thereof to be redeemed, including interest
accrued to the redemption date, is
held by the Registrar on the redemption date, and, if notice of redemption
has been deposited in the mail, then
from and after the redemption date
those Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on the
redemption date, or that notice shall
not have been deposited in the mail,
those Bonds and portions thereof
shall continue to bear interest, until
they are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money held
by the Registrar for the redemption of
particular Bonds shall be held in trust
for the account of the registered owners and shall be paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without
deduction for the services of the Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent. Principal shall be payable
when due upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds at the principal
corporate trust office of the Registrar. Interest on a Bond shall be paid
on each Interest Payment Date by

102

February 2, 2011
check or draft mailed to the person in
whose name the Bond was registered,
and to that person’s address appearing, on the Bond Register (as defined
in Section  3 hereof) at the close of
business on the date provided in the
Registrar Agreement authorized and
defined in Section  3 hereof (the
“Record Date”). Notwithstanding any
contrary provision in the General
Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds
are held by a Depository in a book
entry system (as described in Section  3 hereof), debt charges on the
Bonds will be payable in lawful
money of the United States by wire
transfer to the Depository made by
the Escrow Agent on each Interest
Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance. The General Bond Ordinance, except for the third paragraph
of Section 13(a) (pertaining generally to an adjustment of the interest
rate in an event of default) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 (pertaining generally to the periods during
which the City is not required to make
any transfers or exchanges of bonds
issued under the General Bond Ordinance), will apply to the Bonds.
Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance is included as a
part of this Ordinance as fully as if
restated in this Ordinance. Words and
terms not otherwise defined in this
Ordinance shall have the same meaning as set forth in the General Bond
Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of the
Bonds; Paying Agents.
The Bonds shall express upon their
faces the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section  4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by the
City’s Director of Finance, and, consistent with Section 133.27 of the Ohio
Revised Code and notwithstanding
Section  177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either or both of
those signatures may be a facsimile.
The Bonds shall bear the seal of the
City, which seal may be a facsimile
seal. Pursuant to Section  83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Bonds and shall
endorse thereon his approval of the
form and correctness thereof by his
manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, bond registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Bonds (the
“Registrar”). The Registrar shall also
act as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry system. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City, an
agreement between the City and the
Registrar (the “Registrar Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and payment of the Bonds on terms approved
by the Director of Finance on behalf
of the City and consistent with this
Ordinance and not substantially
adverse to the City. That approval
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance shall provide for
the payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses

February 2, 2011
incurred pursuant to the Registrar
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Registrar to maintain and keep at its
principal corporate trust office all
books and records necessary for the
registration, exchange and transfer
of Bonds as provided in this Section
(the “Bond Register”). The person in
whose name a Bond is registered on
the Bond Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Bond for
all purposes of this Ordinance. Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Bond shall be made
only to or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Bond, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender
at the principal corporate trust office
of the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. A Bond may
be transferred only on the Bond Register upon presentation and surrender
of the Bond at the principal corporate
trust office of the Registrar together
with an assignment signed by the registered owner or by a person legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any tax or
other governmental charge required
to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid obligations of
the City, evidencing the same debt,
and entitled to the same security and
benefit under this Ordinance, as the
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:

The City Record
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds and the principal of and interest on the Bonds may
be transferred only through a book
entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are
issued by the City only to a Depository or its nominee as registered owner,
with the Bonds “immobilized” in the
custody of the Depository. The book
entry maintained by others than the
City is the record that identifies the
owners of beneficial interests in those
Bonds and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York,
New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers,
banks and trust companies, and clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the Bonds
may be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Bond representing
each maturity and registered in the
name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository;
(ii) the beneficial owners in book
entry form shall have no right to
receive Bonds in the form of physical
securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book
entry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of beneficial interests
shall be made only by book entry by
the Depository and its Participants;
and (iv) the Bonds as such shall not
be transferable or exchangeable,
except for transfer to another Depository or to another nominee of a Depository, without further action by the
City.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Bonds for use in a book entry system,
the Director of Finance may attempt
to
establish
a
securities
depository/book entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or is
unable to do so, the Registrar, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Bonds from the
Depository, and the Trustee and Registrar shall authenticate and deliver
bond certificates in registered form to
the assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to the
extent necessary or required to enter
into any agreements determined necessary in connection with the book
entry system for the Bonds, after
determining that the signing thereof
will not endanger the funds or securities of the City and after the approval

103

19
of the form of any such agreement by
the Director of Law.
Section 4. Sale of Bonds.
The Bonds shall first be offered for
purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by
them, shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase and,
if not purchased for that Account,
shall be sold to one or more firms that
have proposed to underwrite the
Bonds and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to the
Original Purchaser in the Certificate
of Award which shall specify the
final terms of the Bonds in accordance with law, the provisions of this
Ordinance, the written advice of a
financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 16 hereof and the
Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Bonds, the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount of
the Bonds plus any accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), the Interest Payment
Dates and the date of the Bonds and
any other matters required in this
Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Law, Clerk of
Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of them
is, authorized to take such actions as
are necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for delivery of the Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and
certificates, to cause a true transcript
of proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to sign
and deliver on behalf of the City a
bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell the Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Bonds, which shall be consistent with
this Ordinance, not substantially
adverse to the City, and approved by
the Director of Finance and Director
of Law on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by the Director
of Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in this
Ordinance and as may be provided in
or pursuant to the Certificate of
Award, are in the best interest of the
City and in compliance with all legal
requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of

20
Finance may combine the Bonds with
other bonds into a single consolidated
issue of bonds for purposes of their
sale as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation
Bonds, Series 2011” or such other designation as may be set forth in the
Certificate of Award. Such bonds
shall contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Bonds are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax.
For the purpose of providing the
necessary funds to pay the interest on
the Bonds promptly when and as the
same falls due, and also to provide for
the discharge of the Bonds at maturity, there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds are outstanding, in an amount
sufficient to provide for the payment
of that interest, when and as the same
shall fall due, and also to discharge
the principal of the Bonds at maturity, which tax shall not be less than
the interest and sinking fund tax
required by Section 11 of Article XII
of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered computed, certified, levied and extended
upon the tax duplicate and collected
by the same officers, in the same manner and at the same time that taxes
for general purposes for each of those
years are certified, extended and collected. The tax shall be placed before
and in preference to all other items
and for the full amount thereof. The
funds derived from those tax levies
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund as required by the General Bond Ordinance, and those funds,
together with the interest collected on
them, shall be irrevocably pledged for
the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds when and as the
same fall due; provided, however,
that, subject to the provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance,
in each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Bonds
and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of such tax shall be
reduced by the amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections  133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Ohio Revised Code, and in accordance with the provisions of and to
the extent required or permitted by
the General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt charges
for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds are
issued. The proceeds of the Bonds to
be applied to pay costs of any Credit
Support Instruments obtained pursuant to Section 15 hereof shall be
paid to the provider or providers of
those Credit Support Instruments.
The proceeds of the Bonds to be used
to pay costs of issuing the Bonds shall
be deposited with the Registrar in a
separate account under the Registrar
Agreement pending their application
to the payment of such costs. Pursuant to Chapter 133 of the Ohio
Revised Code and this Ordinance, and

The City Record
notwithstanding Chapter 179 of the
Codified Ordinances, any accrued
interest and any premium received
from the sale of the Bonds shall be
deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds.
Section 7. General Obligation.
The Bonds are secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Bonds are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit of the City are
hereby pledged for the payment of the
principal of and interest on the Bonds
in accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid and
discharged all the outstanding Bonds,
or there shall otherwise be paid to the
holders of the outstanding Bonds all
debt charges due or to become due
thereon, and provision shall also be
made for paying all other sums
payable hereunder, then and in that
event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations of
the City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the request
of the City execute and deliver to the
City such instruments in writing as
shall discharge the lien hereof and
enter on the record such discharge of
the lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or subaccounts, in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold in
special accounts or subaccounts, in
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, direct obligations of
the United States certified by an independent public accounting firm of
national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and
committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together
with moneys referred to in (i) above,
for the payment, at their maturities or
redemption dates, of all debt charges
on the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall have
occurred on such date then to the date
of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds are to be
redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall
have been duly given or irrevocable
provision satisfactory to the Trustee

104

February 2, 2011
shall have been duly made for the giving of such notice. Any moneys held
by the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient
to meet payment of debt charges on
the Bonds, as directed by the Director
of Finance. Any income or interest
earned by, or increment to, the investments held under this Section shall, to
the extent determined from time to
time by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this Section, be transferred at the time of
such determination as provided in
Section  17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent. In the event of
nonpresentment of any Bond as
described in Section 17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance, the moneys held
pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section  17(a) for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in Section 1 hereof, notes of the City may be
issued in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Fifteen Million
One Hundred Fifty-Five Thousand
Dollars ($15,155,000) (the “Notes”)
upon the direction of the Director of
Finance to be set forth in a certificate
providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
(a) Terms of the Notes. The Notes
shall bear interest at such rate, not
exceeding seven percent (7%) per
year, as may be fixed by the Director
of Finance of the City in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be dated their
date of issuance; shall mature on the
date set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award, which shall be no later than
five years from such date of issuance;
shall be subject to redemption by the
City at any time prior to maturity
without penalty, provided that, if the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
years following the date of issuance
of the Notes; shall be designated
“Bridges and Roadways Improvement
Bond Anticipation Notes”; shall be
issued in such numbers and denominations as may be requested by the
Note Purchaser (hereinafter defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered
form (which may be in a book entry
only system) in denominations of
$5,000 or integral multiples thereof.
Interest shall be payable semiannually on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that if
the Notes mature on or before the end
of the twelfth month following their
date of issuance, interest on the Notes
shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, registrar, transfer agent and
paying agent for the Notes (the “Note
Registrar”). The Escrow Agent also
shall act as paying agent for the
Notes if the Notes are held in a book
entry system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Regis-

February 2, 2011
trar and the Escrow Agent (the “Note
Registrar Agreement”) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes on terms that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Note Registrar to maintain and keep
at its principal corporate trust office
all books and records necessary for
the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes as provided in this Section
(the “Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded as
the absolute owner of that Note for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Note shall be made only to or
upon the order of that person; neither
the City nor the Note Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Note, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination
upon presentation and surrender at
the principal corporate trust office of
the Note Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. A Note
may be transferred only on the Note
Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or by
a person legally empowered to do so
in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer the
Note
Registrar
shall
complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by
the owner equal in the aggregate to
the unmatured principal amount of
the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Note Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Note Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Note Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Notes issued and authenticated upon any exchange or transfer shall be valid obligations of the
City, evidencing the same debt, and

The City Record
entitled to the same security and benefit under this Ordinance, as the Notes
surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes with
other bond anticipation notes of the
City for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for
which the Notes are issued and shall
state that they are issued pursuant to
this Ordinance.
(b) Execution and Payment of the
Notes. The Notes shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which they
are issued and that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance. Each Note
shall be authenticated by the manual
signature of an authorized officer of
the Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance, and, consistent with Section
133.27 of the Ohio Revised Code and
notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City,
either or both of those signatures may
be a facsimile. The Notes shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Notes and
shall endorse thereon his approval of
the form and correctness thereof by
his manual or facsimile signature.
(c) Sale of the Notes. The Notes
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite the Notes and
have been selected by the Director of
Finance based on an evaluation of the
qualifications of those firms (the
“Note Purchaser”) in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director
of Finance (the  “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section 10
hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund and
used for the purpose for which the
Notes are being issued under the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Security for the Notes. The
Notes shall be the full general obligations of the City, and the full faith,
credit and revenue of the City are
hereby pledged for the prompt payment of the same. The par value to be
received from the sale of the Notes
and any excess funds resulting from
the issuance of the Notes shall, to the
extent necessary, be used for the
retirement of the Notes at maturity,
together with the interest thereon,
and are hereby pledged for such purpose.
Section 10. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax.
During the year or years while the
Notes are outstanding there shall be
levied on all the taxable property in
the City, in addition to all other taxes
but within tax limitations, a direct
tax annually not less than that which
would have been levied if bonds had
been issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general
purposes for each year are certified,

105

21
extended and collected. That tax
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the full
amount thereof. The funds derived
from the tax levies required by this
Ordinance shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, and those funds, together
with the interest collected on them,
shall be irrevocably pledged for the
payment of the principal and interest
of the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment of
the Notes and Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of
such direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance, a disclosure document
(each, an “Official Statement”) is
appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the Notes or the
Bonds, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare or cause to be
prepared on behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, and any necessary supplements
and to authorize the use and distribution of each Official Statement and
any supplements. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity each Official Statement and
any supplements approved by her.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity such
certificates in connection with the
accuracy of each Official Statement
and any supplements as may, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
be necessary or appropriate. The
Director of Finance is also authorized
to determine and certify on behalf of
the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by the City
within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”). The Director of
Finance is authorized to contract for
services for the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed
and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, in accordance with the SEC Rule.
The performance of that agreement
shall be subject to the availability of
funds and their annual appropriation
to meet costs the City would be

22
required to incur to perform it. The
Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance
by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely
provision of information and notices.
Section 12. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance shall not apply to the Bonds or
the Notes authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance
are fully applicable to the Bonds and
the Notes authorized herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed
to alter or restrict such full application of the General Bond Ordinance,
except for the exclusion from application to the Bonds and the Notes authorized herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a) and
the third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance, pursuant to
Section 2 hereof.
Section 13. Captions.
The captions or headings in this
Ordinance are for convenience only
and in no way define, limit or describe
the scope or intent of any provisions
or sections of this Ordinance.
Section 14. Federal Tax Covenants.
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Notes and the Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds under
Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the “Code”) or (ii) be treated other
than as bonds to which Section 103(a)
of the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section 57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Notes and the
Bonds to be and to remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Notes and the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds,
(iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports, and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this Section
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds is also made with respect to all
issues any portion of the debt service
on which is paid from proceeds of the
Notes or the Bonds (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding
issues in a series of refundings), to
the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on
the Notes and the Bonds from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above
are authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this Section to take with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds.

The City Record
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds as
the City is permitted or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section  148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section  148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts or
payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing
and signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf of
the City, as may be appropriate to
assure the exclusion of interest from
gross income and the intended tax
status of the Notes and the Bonds, and
(c) to give one or more appropriate
certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting forth
the reasonable expectations of the
City regarding the amount and use of
all the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 15. Credit Enhancement and
Ratings.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, the filing of an application for a rating on
the Bonds or designated portion
thereof by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies is in the best
interest of the City, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare and
submit those applications and to provide to each such agency such information as may be required for the purpose. The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for one or more
Credit Support Instruments for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof
if the Director determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that the Credit Support
Instruments will result in debt service savings to the City. As used in
this Section,
“Credit
Support
Instrument” means an insurance policy, surety, letter of credit, or other
instrument used to enhance or provide for the security of Bonds. The
cost of obtaining each rating and the
cost of obtaining each Credit Support
Instrument, except to the extent paid
by the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Bond Purchase Agreement, shall be paid from the proceeds
of Bonds or funds appropriated for
that purpose.
Section 16. Financial Advisor.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required by

106

February 2, 2011
this Ordinance to be determined by
the Director of Finance. The Director
of Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination.
It is found and determined that all
formal actions of this Council and of
any of its committees concerning and
relating to the passage of this Ordinance were taken, and that all deliberations of this Council and any of its
committees that resulted in these formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section  121.22 of
the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals of
Validity.
It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions
and things necessary to be done
precedent to and in the issuing of the
Bonds and the Notes in order to make
them legal, valid and binding obligations of the City have happened, been
done and been performed in regular
and due form as required by law; and
that no limitation of indebtedness or
taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes. It
is further found and determined, and
is hereby represented and recited,
that the provisions of Sections 28, 29,
32, 33 (including the provisions of Section  33 with respect to readings on
three separate days or dispensing
with such readings by a two-thirds
vote of all members of the Council),
36, 37, 48 and all other applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and the
rules of this Council have been fully
complied with and this Ordinance was
passed in conformity therewith.
Section 19. Delivery to County.
The Director of Finance is directed
to forward a certified copy of this
Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the appropriate official of the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio and to secure a receipt
therefor.
Section 20. Severability.
Each section and each part of each
section of this Ordinance is hereby
declared to be an independent section
or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be the
controlling legislative intent that if
any such section or part of a section
or any provision thereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 21. Legislative Intent.
All terms, conditions, pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority,
including its authority under its Charter and Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio.

February 2, 2011
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 22. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 131-11.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
AlSher Titania, LLC, or its designee,
to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance the
purchase of machinery and equipment at their new location at 842 East
79th Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into contract with AlSher Titania, LLC, or its designee, to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the purchase of
machinery and equipment at their
new location at 842 East 79th Street.
Section 2. That the terms of the loan
shall be according to the terms set
forth in the Summary contained in
File No. 131-11-A, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at the public hearing on
this legislation, and are approved in
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the costs of the contract shall not exceed $300,000, and
shall be paid from Fund No. 17 SF 008,
which funds are appropriated for this
purpose, Request No. RQS 9501, RL
2011-2.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept such collateral as the director
determines is sufficient in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
loan agreement, security instrument,
or other document shall be prepared
and approved by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept monies in repayment of the
loan and to deposit the monies in
Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable

The City Record
fees under federal regulations and
the fees are appropriated to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of
the loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from Fund
No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. The contract authorized
in this legislation will require the
recipient of financial assistance to
work with, and/or cause their Tenants to work with, The Workforce
Investment Board for Workforce
Area No. 3 to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities
related to the City’s contracts, and
place special emphasis on the hard to
employ, including but not limited to
the disabled and persons who have
been convicted of or have pled guilty
to a criminal offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances relate to the duties for the
particular job sought.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic,
Development, Finance, Law; Committees Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 132-11.
By Council Members Pruitt, Reed,
Polensek, Zone, Westbrook and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to levy
special assessments to relay and
repair sidewalks, driveway aprons
and curbs, including adjustments of
castings and landscaping, if necessary, encroaching upon the public
rights-of-way on East 151st Street
from Glendale Avenue to Bartlett
Avenue; West 90th Street from Clark
Avenue to Denison Avenue; West 61st
Street from Detroit Avenue to Herman Avenue; and West 64th Street
from Detroit Avenue to Herman
Avenue.
Whereas, under Resolution No. 8709, adopted March 9, 2009, this Council
declared it necessary to relay and
repair sidewalks, driveway aprons,
and curbs, including adjustments of
castings and landscaping, if necessary, encroaching upon the public
rights-of-way on portions on East
151st Street from Glendale Avenue to
Bartlett Avenue, Melville Road from
St. Clair Avenue to Nottingham Road,
West 61st Street from Detroit Avenue
to Herman Avenue, West 64th Street
from Detroit Avenue to Herman
Avenue, and West 90th Street from
Clair Avenue to Denison Avenue; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 126909, passed September 14, 2009, this
Council amended Resolution No. 87-09
to remove the Melville Road area
from the intended assessment; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 107409, passed August 5, 2009, as amended
by Resolution No. 1272-09, this Council
appointed an assessment equalization board to hear objections to the
estimated assessments by property
owners; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 148809, passed October 12, 2009, this Council approved the report of the assessment equalization board, determined
to proceed with the improvements,
and adopted the equalized assessments; and

107

23
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the assessment of
the cost and expense of relaying and
repairing
sidewalks,
driveway
aprons, and curbs, including adjustments of castings and landscaping, if
necessary, encroaching upon the public right-of-way or otherwise improving the right-of-way in accordance
with plans, specifications and profiles on East on East 151st Street from
Glendale Avenue to Bartlett Avenue;
West 90th Street from Clark Avenue
to Denison Avenue; West 61st Street
from Detroit Avenue to Herman
Avenue; and West 64th Street from
Detroit Avenue to Herman Avenue in
the City of Cleveland as set forth in
Resolution No. 87-09, adopted March 9,
2009, as amended by Ordinance No.
1269-09, passed September 14, 2009,
and amounting in the aggregate to
$536,110.65, as reported to this Council
by the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses in File No. 132-11-A, is
adopted and conformed, and that
there are levied and assessed on the
lots and lands within the Improvement fifty percent (50%) of each of
the several amounts reported as
aforesaid, which assessments and the
description of the lots and lands are
now on file in the office of the Clerk
of Council and which assessments are
in proportion to the special benefits
and are not in excess of any statutory
limitation.
Section 2. That this Council finds
and determines that the revised
assessments now on file in the office
of the Clerk are in the same proportion to the estimated assessments as
originally filed as the actual cost of
the above-described improvements
are to the estimated cost of the
improvements as originally filed.
Section 3. That the assessment
against each lot or parcel of land
shall be payable in cash within forty
(40) days after the passage of this
ordinance or at the option of the
owner in five (5) annual installments.
All cash payments shall be made to
the Commissioner of Licenses and
Assessments of this City. All assessments and installments remaining
unpaid at the expiration of said forty
(40) days shall be certified by the
Clerk of this Council to the County
Auditor as provided by law to be
placed by him on the tax duplicate
and collected as other taxes are collected.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to file a certified copy of
this ordinance with the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County within twenty (20)
days of the date of its passage as
required by Section 319.61, Ohio
Revised Code.
Section 5. That it is found and determined that all formal action of this
Council concerning and relating to
the adoption of this ordinance were
adopted in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and any of its committees
that resulted in such formal action
were in meetings open to the public,
in compliance with all legal requirements.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

24
Ord. No. 133-11.
By Council Member J. Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located on St. Clair Avenue to Ohio
Technical College.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the real property, more
fully described below, to Ohio Technical College.
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this ordinance is
more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-10-055
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being part of
Sublot No. 3 in Ranney and Herrick’s
Allotment of part of Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 128, 129, 130 and 131, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume
12 of Maps, Page 30 of the Cuyahoga
County Records, and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Southwesterly
line of East 52nd Street, at the most
Easterly corner of Sublot No. 3; thence
Southwesterly along the Southeasterly line of Sublot No. 3, 46 feet to a point
and the principal place of beginning;
thence continuing Southwesterly
along said Southeasterly line of
Sublot No. 3, 24.5 feet; thence Northwesterly and parallel with the Southwesterly line of East 52nd Street, 60
feet; thence Northeasterly and parallel with the Southeasterly line of
Sublot No. 3, 24.5 feet; thence Southeasterly and parallel with the Southwesterly line of East 52nd Street, 60
feet to the principal place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Mayor on
behalf of the City of Cleveland. The

The City Record
deed shall contain such provisions as
may be necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including such
restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control, the Director of
Community Development or the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 134-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
State of Ohio Emergency Management Agency, or a designated entity,
for the 2010 Urban Area Security Initiative Program; authorizing one or
more requirement and standard contracts for the purchase of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services;
authorizing one or more agreements
with governmental entities; and to
employ one or more professional consultants to implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate
amount of $5,094,390, and any other
funds that become available, from the
State of Ohio Emergency Management Agency, or a designated entity,
to conduct the 2010 Urban Area Security Initiative (“UASI”) Program; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the grant agreement for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the grant agreement
for the grant, File No. 134-11-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation and
shall not be changed without additional
legislative
authority,
is
approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written standard purchase
contracts and written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, during the grant term, of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services needed to implement the program as described in the file, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Public
Safety. Bids shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines.
Section 4. That the costs of the
requirement
contract
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director of
Finance shall certify the amount of
the initial purchase, which purchase,

108

February 2, 2011
together with all later purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Safety may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 6. That The Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with governmental entities to implement the program as described in the file.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the program as described in the
file.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Safety from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Safety for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Safety, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 8. That the Director of Public Safety shall have the authority to
extend the term of the grant if the
extension
does
not
involve
an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 9. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 136-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds in
the maximum principal amount of
$14,230,000 for the purpose of providing funds to improve buildings and
structures housing and providing for
the discharge of governmental functions and services otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and welfare and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Fourteen Million Two Hundred Thirty Thousand
Dollars ($14,230,000) (the “Bonds”) to
finance the costs of certain permanent improvements described in Section  1 of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”); and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of this City, has previously certified to this Council that

February 2, 2011
the estimated life or usefulness of the
improvements to be financed with the
proceeds of the Bonds is at least five
years and that the maximum maturity of the Bonds is 18 years; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No.
944-96, passed June 10, 1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so amended and
as the same may further be amended
from time to time in accordance with
its provisions, is referred to as the
“General Bond Ordinance”), providing the general terms and provisions
for the issuance of unvoted general
obligations of the City, with the specific terms of each series of Bonds to
be contained in ordinances authorizing the issuance of Bonds in accordance with the provisions thereof
(the “Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary to
provide funds to pay the costs of certain
permanent
improvements
described in Section 1 hereof that are
urgently needed for the benefit of the
City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes an emergency measure
providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety, and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose.
It is deemed necessary to issue the
Bonds in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Fourteen Million Two Hundred Thirty Thousand
Dollars ($14,230,000) for the purpose
of providing funds for constructing,
reconstructing,
rehabilitating,
installing, renovating, enlarging and
otherwise improving buildings and
structures housing and providing for
the discharge of governmental functions and services otherwise benefiting the public safety, health and welfare, including facilities in, of and for
the City Hall, police stations, fire stations, service stations, centers and
facilities, waste collection, market
facilities, transfer and disposal facilities, correctional facilities, and
health and other facilities, and the
provision of necessary fixtures, furnishings, equipment, appurtenances,
utilities, and site improvements for
the purpose, and to pay any capitalized interest and all expenses
incurred in connection with the
issuance of the securities, including
all financing costs within the meaning of Section 133.01(K) of the Ohio
Revised Code and such other costs of
the foregoing permanent improvements that may be financed with the
proceeds of securities as permitted by
Section 133.15(B) of the Ohio Revised
Code and as otherwise permitted by
law.
Section 2. Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Chapter 133
of the Ohio Revised Code and other
applicable provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code, the Charter of the City,
the General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section 1 hereof. The Bonds shall be
designated
“Public
Facilities
Improvement Bonds” and may contain such further designation as provided in the certificate of award providing for the final terms of the Bonds
and the sale of the Bonds signed by
the Director of Finance in accordance
with this Ordinance (the “Certificate
of Award”). The Bonds shall be issued
in one lot as fully registered Bonds in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds

The City Record
shall be numbered as determined by
the Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be issued in the
principal amount specified in the Certificate of Award, which shall not
exceed the amount stated in Section 1
hereof. The Bonds shall be dated the
date and shall bear interest from their
date until the principal amount is
paid at the rate or rates per year specified in the Certificate of Award, provided that the weighted average of
such rates (taking into account the
principal amount and maturity of
each Bond to which a rate applies)
shall not exceed seven percent (7%)
per year. Interest on the Bonds shall
be payable when due, or until the
principal amount is paid, semiannually as specified in the Certificate of
Award as the dates on which interest
on the Bonds shall be payable (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), beginning
on the date specified in the Certificate
of Award as the first Interest Payment Date.
The Bonds shall mature in the
years and principal amounts as shall
be permitted by law and determined
by the Director of Finance and specified in the Certificate of Award, based
on the written advice of a Financial
Advisor to be in the best interests of
the City, provided that (i) each principal payment shall occur on an Interest Payment Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be
no earlier than November 15, 2011 and
no later than December 31, 2013, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than 18 years from
that date which is 12 months prior to
the first date on which provision for
payment of principal is made, and
(iv) the principal amount thereof
shall be payable in annual installments such that the total principal
and interest payments on the Bonds
in any fiscal year in which principal
is payable is not more than three
times the amount of those payments
in any other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in any
year may be issued as term bonds (the
“Term Bonds”), payable pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements as defined and further
described below. The Director of
Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award whether any of the
Bonds shall be issued as Term Bonds,
any dates (the “Mandatory Redemption Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable pursuant to mandatory sinking fund installments rather than at
stated maturity and the amount of
principal to be paid on each Mandatory Redemption Date (the “Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption. If any of the Bonds are
issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100%
of the principal amount redeemed,
plus interest accrued to the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to be
deposited with the Escrow Agent, currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of and
interest on any Term Bonds shall
include amounts sufficient to redeem
on the Mandatory Redemption Dates
the principal amount of Term Bonds
payable on those dates pursuant to
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements (less the
amount of any credit as provided
below).

109

25
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined in
Section  3 hereof) for cancellation
Term Bonds in any aggregate principal amount and to receive a credit
against the then-current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City for
any Term Bonds. That option shall be
exercised by the City on or before the
forty-fifth day preceding the applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, by
furnishing the Escrow Agent a certificate, signed by the Registrar, setting forth the extent of the credit to
be applied with respect to the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement. If the certificate is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
corresponding
mandatory
(and
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds that
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
the
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and cancelled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied theretofore as a credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and cancelled, shall be credited by the
Escrow Agent at 100% of the principal amount thereof against the thencurrent Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding
mandatory
redemption
obligation). Any excess of that
amount over the then-current Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirement
shall
be
credited
against subsequent Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligations) in the order
directed by the Director of Finance.
(b) Optional Redemption. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the option
of the City, in whole or in part on any
date, in integral multiples of $5,000,
on the optional redemption dates and
at the redemption prices (expressed
as a percentage of the principal
amount redeemed) specified in the
Certificate of Award, plus, in each
case, accrued interest to the redemption date. The first optional redemption date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment
Date, and the highest redemption
price shall not be greater than 102%
of the principal amount redeemed
plus accrued interest to the redemption date. Based on the written advice
of a financial advisor, the Director of
Finance may determine in the Certificate of Award that it is in the best
interests of the City for some or all of
the Bonds not to be callable prior to
their stated maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, the Bonds, or portions thereof, to be redeemed optionally shall be selected by lot prior to
the selection by lot of the Bonds to be
redeemed on the same date by operation of the Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds shall be
redeemed pursuant to this paragraph
only upon written notice from the
Director of Finance to the Registrar.
That notice shall specify the redemption date and the principal amount of

26
each maturity of Bonds to be
redeemed, and shall be given at least
45 days prior to the redemption date
or such shorter period as shall be
acceptable to the Registrar. There
shall be deposited with the Registrar
on or prior to the redemption date
funds sufficient to redeem at the
redemption
price
all
of
the
redeemable Bonds for which notice of
redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided in
the Certificate of Award, the City may
elect to purchase Bonds called for
optional redemption in lieu of redeeming those Bonds. That election shall
be exercised by written direction
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar and the Escrow Agent.
That written direction shall state
whether all or less than all of the
Bonds called for optional redemption
are to be purchased by the City in lieu
of redemption, shall identify the
Bonds to be purchased by their maturity date and shall specify the principal amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for optional redemption are to be purchased in
lieu of redemption, the amount of
each maturity to be purchased shall
be in amounts of $5,000 or integral
multiples of $5,000. Any Bonds called
for optional redemption that are not
to be purchased shall be redeemed in
accordance with their redemption provisions. The purchase price of the
Bonds to be purchased in lieu of
redemption shall be equal to the principal of, any accrued but unpaid interest on, and any premium that would
have been payable on the Bonds on
the redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners of
the Bonds in addition to the notice of
redemption required by this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying agent, shall not purchase Bonds if sufficient moneys
have not been deposited with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, by the City for the purpose. On
or prior to the scheduled date for
optional redemption, the City may
rescind its direction to purchase the
Bonds in lieu of redemption by written notice from the Director of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. In the event that the
direction to purchase is rescinded, the
Bonds shall be redeemed on the
redemption date set forth in the notice
of redemption delivered to the owners
of the Bonds and in accordance with
the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d) Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding Bonds are called for redemption at one time (whether for redemption or purchase in lieu of redemption), they shall be called in the order
of maturities directed by the Director
of Finance. If fewer than all Bonds of
a single maturity are to be redeemed
or purchased in lieu of redemption,
the selection of Bonds to be redeemed
or purchased, or portions thereof in
amounts of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the
Registrar by lot in a manner determined by the Registrar. In the case of
a partial redemption or purchase of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of the
denomination of $5,000. If it is determined that one or more, but not all of
the $5,000 units of principal amount
represented by a Bond are to be called
for redemption, then upon notice of
redemption of a $5,000 unit or units,

The City Record
the registered owner of that Bond
shall surrender the Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption
or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued to the date fixed for redemption and any premium), and (ii) for
issuance, without charge to the registered owner thereof, of a new Bond or
Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured portion of the Bond not
redeemed or purchased and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e) Notice of Redemption. The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the amounts
due upon redemption are payable.
The notice shall be given by the Registrar on behalf of the City by mailing
a copy of the redemption notice by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, at
least 30 days prior to the date fixed
for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of Award), to
the registered owner of each Bond
subject to redemption in whole or in
part at the registered owner’s address
shown on the Bond Register maintained by the Registrar at the close of
business on the fifteenth day preceding that mailing and to any provider
of a Credit Support Instrument (as
defined in Section 15 hereof) for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Bond, however, shall not affect
the validity of the proceedings for the
redemption of any Bond. Any notice
of redemption of any Bonds may specify that the redemption is contingent
on the deposit of moneys with the
Escrow Agent or Registrar, as paying
agent, on or prior to the redemption
date in an amount sufficient to pay
the redemption price of the Bonds to
be redeemed.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the manner provided in the preceding paragraph, and moneys having been
deposited by the City with the Escrow
Agent or Registrar, as paying agent,
in an amount sufficient to pay the
redemption price, the Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption
shall become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption
of all of the Bonds and portions thereof to be redeemed, including interest
accrued to the redemption date, is
held by the Registrar on the redemption date, and, if notice of redemption
has been deposited in the mail, then
from and after the redemption date
those Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to
bear interest and no longer shall be
considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on the
redemption date, or that notice shall
not have been deposited in the mail,
those Bonds and portions thereof
shall continue to bear interest, until
they are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money held
by the Registrar for the redemption of
particular Bonds shall be held in trust
for the account of the registered owners and shall be paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of

110

February 2, 2011
the United States of America without
deduction for the services of the Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying
agent. Principal shall be payable
when due upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds at the principal
corporate trust office of the Registrar. Interest on a Bond shall be paid
on each Interest Payment Date by
check or draft mailed to the person in
whose name the Bond was registered,
and to that person’s address appearing, on the Bond Register (as defined
in Section  3 hereof) at the close of
business on the date provided in the
Registrar Agreement authorized and
defined in Section  3 hereof (the
“Record Date”). Notwithstanding any
contrary provision in the General
Bond Ordinance, so long as the Bonds
are held by a Depository in a book
entry system (as described in Section  3 hereof), debt charges on the
Bonds will be payable in lawful
money of the United States by wire
transfer to the Depository made by
the Escrow Agent on each Interest
Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General Bond
Ordinance. The General Bond Ordinance, except for the third paragraph
of Section 13(a) (pertaining generally to an adjustment of the interest
rate in an event of default) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 (pertaining generally to the periods during
which the City is not required to make
any transfers or exchanges of bonds
issued under the General Bond Ordinance), will apply to the Bonds.
Except for those provisions, the General Bond Ordinance is included as a
part of this Ordinance as fully as if
restated in this Ordinance. Words and
terms not otherwise defined in this
Ordinance shall have the same meaning as set forth in the General Bond
Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution,
Authentication,
Approval
and
Recording of the Bonds; Exchange
and Transfer of the Bonds; Paying
Agents. The Bonds shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which they
are issued and that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant
to Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by the
City’s Director of Finance, and, consistent with Section 133.27 of the Ohio
Revised Code and notwithstanding
Section  177.02 of the Codified Ordinances of the City, either or both of
those signatures may be a facsimile.
The Bonds shall bear the seal of the
City, which seal may be a facsimile
seal. Pursuant to Section  83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Bonds and shall
endorse thereon his approval of the
form and correctness thereof by his
manual or facsimile signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, bond registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Bonds (the
“Registrar”). The Registrar shall also
act as paying agent for the Bonds so
long as the Bonds are held in a book
entry system. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City, an
agreement between the City and the
Registrar (the “Registrar Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the registration, transfer, exchange and payment of the Bonds on terms approved
by the Director of Finance on behalf
of the City and consistent with this
Ordinance and not substantially
adverse to the City. That approval

February 2, 2011
shall be conclusively evidenced by
the signing of the Registrar Agreement by the Director of Finance. The
Director of Finance shall provide for
the payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Registrar
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Registrar to maintain and keep at its
principal corporate trust office all
books and records necessary for the
registration, exchange and transfer
of Bonds as provided in this Section
(the “Bond Register”). The person in
whose name a Bond is registered on
the Bond Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Bond for
all purposes of this Ordinance. Payment of or on account of the debt
charges on any Bond shall be made
only to or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar
shall be affected by any notice to the
contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Bond, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender
at the principal corporate trust office
of the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. A Bond may
be transferred only on the Bond Register upon presentation and surrender
of the Bond at the principal corporate
trust office of the Registrar together
with an assignment signed by the registered owner or by a person legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner equal
in the aggregate to the unmatured
principal amount of the Bond surrendered and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the same
date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any tax or
other governmental charge required
to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid obligations of
the City, evidencing the same debt,
and entitled to the same security and
benefit under this Ordinance, as the
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provi-

The City Record
sions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds and the principal of and interest on the Bonds may
be transferred only through a book
entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are
issued by the City only to a Depository or its nominee as registered owner,
with the Bonds “immobilized” in the
custody of the Depository. The book
entry maintained by others than the
City is the record that identifies the
owners of beneficial interests in those
Bonds and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York,
New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers,
banks and trust companies, and clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized: (i) the Bonds
may be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Bond representing
each maturity and registered in the
name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository;
(ii) the beneficial owners in book
entry form shall have no right to
receive Bonds in the form of physical
securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book
entry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of beneficial interests
shall be made only by book entry by
the Depository and its Participants;
and (iv) the Bonds as such shall not
be transferable or exchangeable,
except for transfer to another Depository or to another nominee of a Depository, without further action by the
City.
If any Depository determines not to
continue to act as a Depository for the
Bonds for use in a book entry system,
the Director of Finance may attempt
to
establish
a
securities
depository/book entry relationship
with another qualified Depository. If
the Director of Finance does not or is
unable to do so, the Registrar, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Bonds from the
Depository, and the Trustee and Registrar shall authenticate and deliver
bond certificates in registered form to
the assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to the
extent necessary or required to enter
into any agreements determined necessary in connection with the book
entry system for the Bonds, after
determining that the signing thereof
will not endanger the funds or securities of the City and after the approval
of the form of any such agreement by
the Director of Law.

111

27
Section 4. Sale of Bonds.
The Bonds shall first be offered for
purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and, if not purchased by
them, shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase and,
if not purchased for that Account,
shall be sold to one or more firms that
have proposed to underwrite the
Bonds and have been selected by the
Director of Finance based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those
firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to the
Original Purchaser in the Certificate
of Award which shall specify the
final terms of the Bonds in accordance with law, the provisions of this
Ordinance, the written advice of a
financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 16 hereof and the
Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase the Bonds, including: the principal amount of the Bonds, the purchase price (which shall be not less
than 97% of the principal amount of
the Bonds plus any accrued interest to
their date of delivery), interest rate or
rates, the amounts and years in which
principal installments are payable
(at stated maturity or pursuant to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption
Requirements), the Interest Payment
Dates and the date of the Bonds and
any other matters required in this
Ordinance to be set forth in that Certificate. As appropriate under the
Charter, the Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Law, Clerk of
Council and other appropriate officers of the City are, and each of them
is, authorized to take such actions as
are necessary, appropriate and in the
best interest of the City to establish
the terms and requirements for delivery of the Bonds and to make such
arrangements as are necessary with
the Original Purchaser in order to
establish the date, location, procedures, and conditions for the delivery
of the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices and
certificates, to cause a true transcript
of proceedings with reference to the
issuance of the Bonds to be delivered
to the Original Purchaser, to sign any
transcript
certificates,
financial
statements and other documents and
instruments and to take such actions
as are necessary or appropriate to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance and to take
all steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to sign
and deliver on behalf of the City a
bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which the
City agrees to sell the Bonds and the
Original Purchaser agrees to buy the
Bonds, which shall be consistent with
this Ordinance, not substantially
adverse to the City, and approved by
the Director of Finance and Director
of Law on behalf of the City, all of
which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Bond
Purchase Agreement by the Director
of Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in this
Ordinance and as may be provided in
or pursuant to the Certificate of
Award, are in the best interest of the
City and in compliance with all legal
requirements.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Bonds with
other bonds into a single consolidated
issue of bonds for purposes of their
sale as a single issue to be designated
“Various Purpose General Obligation

28
Bonds, Series 2011” or such other designation as may be set forth in the
Certificate of Award. Such bonds
shall contain a summary statement of
purposes encompassing the purpose
for which the Bonds are issued and
shall state that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax.
For the purpose of providing the
necessary funds to pay the interest on
the Bonds promptly when and as the
same falls due, and also to provide for
the discharge of the Bonds at maturity, there shall be and is levied on all
the taxable property in the City, in
addition to all other taxes, a direct
tax annually during the period the
Bonds are outstanding, in an amount
sufficient to provide for the payment
of that interest, when and as the same
shall fall due, and also to discharge
the principal of the Bonds at maturity, which tax shall not be less than
the interest and sinking fund tax
required by Section 11 of Article XII
of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered computed, certified, levied and extended
upon the tax duplicate and collected
by the same officers, in the same manner and at the same time that taxes
for general purposes for each of those
years are certified, extended and collected. The tax shall be placed before
and in preference to all other items
and for the full amount thereof. The
funds derived from those tax levies
shall be placed in the Unvoted Tax
Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund as required by the General Bond Ordinance, and those funds,
together with the interest collected on
them, shall be irrevocably pledged for
the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds when and as the
same fall due; provided, however,
that, subject to the provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance,
in each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Bonds
and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of such tax shall be
reduced by the amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections  133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Ohio Revised Code, and in accordance with the provisions of and to
the extent required or permitted by
the General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt charges
for the Bonds.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Bonds, except for accrued interest
thereon and any premium, shall be
expended and applied for the objects
and purposes for which the Bonds are
issued. The proceeds of the Bonds to
be applied to pay costs of any Credit
Support Instruments obtained pursuant to Section 15 hereof shall be
paid to the provider or providers of
those Credit Support Instruments.
The proceeds of the Bonds to be used
to pay costs of issuing the Bonds shall
be deposited with the Registrar in a
separate account under the Registrar
Agreement pending their application
to the payment of such costs. Pursuant to Chapter 133 of the Ohio
Revised Code and this Ordinance, and
notwithstanding Chapter 179 of the
Codified Ordinances, any accrued
interest and any premium received
from the sale of the Bonds shall be
deposited in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund to be applied to the payment of the principal of and interest
on the Bonds.

The City Record
Section 7. General Obligation.
The Bonds are secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the pledges
and liens authorized by the General
Bond Ordinance and, in addition to
the taxes and revenues specifically
pledged pursuant to this Ordinance
and the General Bond Ordinance and
the other covenants, terms and agreements provided hereunder and in the
General Bond Ordinance to secure
payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds, the City hereby
determines, declares, warrants and
covenants that the Bonds are general
obligations of the City and that the
full faith and credit of the City are
hereby pledged for the payment of the
principal of and interest on the Bonds
in accordance with the laws and Constitution of the State of Ohio, this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid and
discharged all the outstanding Bonds,
or there shall otherwise be paid to the
holders of the outstanding Bonds all
debt charges due or to become due
thereon, and provision shall also be
made for paying all other sums
payable hereunder, then and in that
event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of
further effect, and the covenants,
agreements and other obligations of
the City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the request
of the City execute and deliver to the
City such instruments in writing as
shall discharge the lien hereof and
enter on the record such discharge of
the lien and such other instruments as
may be reasonably required by the
City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or subaccounts, in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold in
special accounts or subaccounts, in
trust for and irrevocably committed
solely thereto, direct obligations of
the United States certified by an independent public accounting firm of
national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest, without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal amount
thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held in trust and
committed, except as hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient, together
with moneys referred to in (i) above,
for the payment, at their maturities or
redemption dates, of all debt charges
on the Bonds to their date of maturity
or redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall have
occurred on such date then to the date
of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds are to be
redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall
have been duly given or irrevocable
provision satisfactory to the Trustee
shall have been duly made for the giving of such notice. Any moneys held
by the Escrow Agent in accordance
with the provisions of this Section
shall be invested by the Escrow
Agent in direct obligations of the
United States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient
to meet payment of debt charges on
the Bonds, as directed by the Director
of Finance. Any income or interest

112

February 2, 2011
earned by, or increment to, the investments held under this Section shall, to
the extent determined from time to
time by the Escrow Agent to be in
excess of the amount required to be
held by it for the purposes of this Section, be transferred at the time of
such determination as provided in
Section  17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent. In the event of
nonpresentment of any Bond as
described in Section 17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance, the moneys held
pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section  17(a) for unclaimed funds held
by a Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in Section 1 hereof, notes of the City may be
issued in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed Fourteen Million Two Hundred Thirty Thousand
Dollars ($14,230,000) (the “Notes”)
upon the direction of the Director of
Finance to be set forth in a certificate
providing for the final terms of the
Notes and the sale of the Notes and
signed by the Director of Finance
(the “Note Certificate of Award”).
(a) Terms of the Notes. The Notes
shall bear interest at such rate, not
exceeding seven percent (7%) per
year, as may be fixed by the Director
of Finance of the City in the Note Certificate of Award; shall be dated their
date of issuance; shall mature on the
date set forth in the Note Certificate
of Award, which shall be no later than
five years from such date of issuance;
shall be subject to redemption by the
City at any time prior to maturity
without penalty, provided that, if the
Director of Finance, based on the
advice of a financial advisor, determines that it is in the best interest of
the City in order to enhance the marketability of the Notes, the Director of
Finance may cause the Notes to not be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
years following the date of issuance
of the Notes; shall be designated “Public Facilities Improvement Bond
Anticipation Notes”; shall be issued in
such numbers and denominations as
may be requested by the Note Purchaser (hereinafter defined); and
shall be issued in fully registered
form (which may be in a book entry
only system) in denominations of
$5,000 or integral multiples thereof.
Interest shall be payable semiannually on the dates set forth in the Note
Certificate of Award; provided that if
the Notes mature on or before the end
of the twelfth month following their
date of issuance, interest on the Notes
shall be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating
agent, registrar, transfer agent and
paying agent for the Notes (the “Note
Registrar”). The Escrow Agent also
shall act as paying agent for the
Notes if the Notes are held in a book
entry system. The Director of Finance
shall sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, an agreement among the City, the Note Registrar and the Escrow Agent (the “Note
Registrar Agreement”) providing for
services relating to the registration,
transfer, exchange and payment of
Notes on terms that are approved by
the Director of Finance on behalf of
the City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by the
Director of Finance. The Director of
Finance shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for
reimbursement of expenses incurred
pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to

February 2, 2011
the extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the City will cause the
Note Registrar to maintain and keep
at its principal corporate trust office
all books and records necessary for
the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes as provided in this Section
(the “Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded as
the absolute owner of that Note for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Note shall be made only to or
upon the order of that person; neither
the City nor the Note Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid and
effectual to satisfy and discharge the
City’s liability upon the Note, including interest, to the extent of the
amount or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination
upon presentation and surrender at
the principal corporate trust office of
the Note Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. A Note
may be transferred only on the Note
Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note at the principal corporate trust office of the Note Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or by
a person legally empowered to do so
in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer the
Registrar
shall
complete,
Note
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested by
the owner equal in the aggregate to
the unmatured principal amount of
the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Note Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Note Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to the
exchange or transfer. The City or the
Note Registrar may require that those
charges, if any, be paid before the procedure is begun for the exchange or
transfer. All Notes issued and authenticated upon any exchange or transfer shall be valid obligations of the
City, evidencing the same debt, and
entitled to the same security and benefit under this Ordinance, as the Notes
surrendered upon that exchange or
transfer.
Pursuant to Section 133.30(B) of the
Ohio Revised Code, the Director of
Finance may combine the Notes with
other bond anticipation notes of the
City for purposes of their sale as a single issue to be designated “Various
Purpose General Obligation Bond
Anticipation Notes.” The Notes shall
contain a summary statement of purposes encompassing the purpose for
which the Notes are issued and shall
state that they are issued pursuant to
this Ordinance.

The City Record
(b) Execution and Payment of the
Notes. The Notes shall express upon
their faces the purpose for which they
are issued and that they are issued
pursuant to this Ordinance. Each Note
shall be authenticated by the manual
signature of an authorized officer of
the Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance, and, consistent with Section
133.27 of the Ohio Revised Code and
notwithstanding Section 177.02 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City,
either or both of those signatures may
be a facsimile. The Notes shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may be
a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the Director of Law shall prepare the Notes and
shall endorse thereon his approval of
the form and correctness thereof by
his manual or facsimile signature.
(c) Sale of the Notes. The Notes
shall first be offered for purchase to
the Trustees of the Sinking Fund and,
if not purchased by them, shall be
offered to the Treasury Investment
Account for purchase and, if not purchased for that Account, shall be sold
to one or more firms that have proposed to underwrite the Notes and
have been selected by the Director of
Finance based on an evaluation of the
qualifications of those firms (the
“Note Purchaser”) in the principal
amount set forth in a certificate of
award to be executed by the Director
of Finance (the  “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section 10
hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund and
used for the purpose for which the
Notes are being issued under the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d)Security for the Notes. The Notes
shall be the full general obligations
of the City, and the full faith, credit
and revenue of the City are hereby
pledged for the prompt payment of
the same. The par value to be received
from the sale of the Notes and any
excess funds resulting from the
issuance of the Notes shall, to the
extent necessary, be used for the
retirement of the Notes at maturity,
together with the interest thereon,
and are hereby pledged for such purpose.
Section 10. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax.
During the year or years while the
Notes are outstanding there shall be
levied on all the taxable property in
the City, in addition to all other taxes
but within tax limitations, a direct
tax annually not less than that which
would have been levied if bonds had
been issued therefor without the prior
issue of the Notes. That tax shall be
and is ordered computed, certified,
levied and extended upon the tax
duplicate and collected by the same
officers, in the same manner and at
the same time that taxes for general
purposes for each year are certified,
extended and collected. That tax
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the full
amount thereof. The funds derived
from the tax levies required by this
Ordinance shall be placed in the
Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations
Account, and those funds, together
with the interest collected on them,
shall be irrevocably pledged for the
payment of the principal and interest
of the Notes or the Bonds in anticipation of which they are issued, when
and as the same falls due; provided,
however, that in each year to the
extent that revenues are available
from other sources for the payment of
the Notes and Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount of
such direct tax upon all of the taxable

113

29
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 11. Official Statement; Continuing Disclosure.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance, a disclosure document
(each, an “Official Statement”) is
appropriate or necessary in connection with the sale of the Notes or the
Bonds, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare or cause to be
prepared on behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, and any necessary supplements
and to authorize the use and distribution of each Official Statement and
any supplements. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign on
behalf of the City and in her official
capacity each Official Statement and
any supplements approved by her.
The Director of Finance is authorized
to sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity such
certificates in connection with the
accuracy of each Official Statement
and any supplements as may, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
be necessary or appropriate. The
Director of Finance is also authorized
to determine and certify on behalf of
the City that such disclosure document is “deemed final” by the City
within the meaning of Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 15c2-12
(the “SEC Rule”). The Director of
Finance is authorized to contract for
services for the production and distribution of preliminary and final Official Statements, including by printed
and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time of
the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as the
only obligated person with respect to
the Notes and the Bonds under the
SEC Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information
and operating data and notices, in
such manner as may be required for
purposes of the SEC Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms of
the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance is authorized and
directed to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of the
holders and beneficial owners of the
Notes or the Bonds, as the case may
be, in accordance with the SEC Rule.
The performance of that agreement
shall be subject to the availability of
funds and their annual appropriation
to meet costs the City would be
required to incur to perform it. The
Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance
by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely
provision of information and notices.
Section 12. Miscellaneous.
(a)Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City that are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance shall not apply to the Bonds or
the Notes authorized herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance
are fully applicable to the Bonds and
the Notes authorized herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed
to alter or restrict such full application of the General Bond Ordinance,
except for the exclusion from application to the Bonds and the Notes autho-

30
rized herein of the provisions of the
third paragraph of Section 13(a) and
the third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance, pursuant to
Section 2 hereof.
Section 13. Captions.
The captions or headings in this
Ordinance are for convenience only
and in no way define, limit or describe
the scope or intent of any provisions
or sections of this Ordinance.
Section 14. Federal Tax Covenants.
The City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the Notes and
the Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Notes and the Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds under
Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the “Code”) or (ii) be treated other
than as bonds to which Section 103(a)
of the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section 57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that (a)
it will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it for
the interest on the Notes and the
Bonds to be and to remain excluded
from gross income for federal income
tax purposes, (b) it will not take or
authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting for
it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the
Notes and the Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii)
restrict the yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds,
(iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports, and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property
financed with such proceeds, all in
such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such exclusion of that
interest under the Code.
Each covenant made in this Section
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds is also made with respect to all
issues any portion of the debt service
on which is paid from proceeds of the
Notes or the Bonds (and, if different,
the original issue and any refunding
issues in a series of refundings), to
the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on
the Notes and the Bonds from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified above
are authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this Section to take with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the fiscal officer, or any other officer of the
City
having
responsibility
for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds as
the City is permitted or required to
make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section  148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or
available under Section  148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
and the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to deter-

The City Record
mine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts or
payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing
and signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf of
the City, as may be appropriate to
assure the exclusion of interest from
gross income and the intended tax
status of the Notes and the Bonds, and
(c) to give one or more appropriate
certificates of the City, for inclusion
in the transcript of proceedings for
the Notes and the Bonds, setting forth
the reasonable expectations of the
City regarding the amount and use of
all the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 15. Credit Enhancement and
Ratings.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, the filing of an application for a rating on
the Bonds or designated portion
thereof by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies is in the best
interest of the City, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare and
submit those applications and to provide to each such agency such information as may be required for the purpose. The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for one or more
Credit Support Instruments for the
Bonds or designated portions thereof
if the Director determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that the Credit Support
Instruments will result in debt service savings to the City. As used in
this Section, “Credit Support Instrument” means an insurance policy,
surety, letter of credit, or other instrument used to enhance or provide for
the security of Bonds. The cost of
obtaining each rating and the cost of
obtaining each Credit Support Instrument, except to the extent paid by the
Original Purchasers in accordance
with the Bond Purchase Agreement,
shall be paid from the proceeds of
Bonds or funds appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 16. Financial Advisor.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more financial
advisors, from time to time, to assist
the Director of Finance in making
any of the determinations required by
this Ordinance to be determined by
the Director of Finance. The Director
of Finance may rely on the written
advice of any financial advisor so
retained. Any financial advisor
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers and any
other party interested in the transaction.
Section 17. Open Meeting Determination.
It is found and determined that all
formal actions of this Council and of
any of its committees concerning and
relating to the passage of this Ordinance were taken, and that all deliberations of this Council and any of its
committees that resulted in these formal actions were held, in meetings
open to the public in compliance with
all legal requirements, including,
without limitation, Section  121.22 of
the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 18. Findings and Recitals of
Validity.
It is hereby determined, represented and recited that all acts, conditions
and things necessary to be done

114

February 2, 2011
precedent to and in the issuing of the
Bonds and the Notes in order to make
them legal, valid and binding obligations of the City have happened, been
done and been performed in regular
and due form as required by law; and
that no limitation of indebtedness or
taxation, either statutory or constitutional, will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes. It
is further found and determined, and
is hereby represented and recited,
that the provisions of Sections 28, 29,
32, 33 (including the provisions of Section  33 with respect to readings on
three separate days or dispensing
with such readings by a two-thirds
vote of all members of the Council),
36, 37, 48 and all other applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and the
rules of this Council have been fully
complied with and this Ordinance was
passed in conformity therewith.
Section 19. Delivery to County.
The Director of Finance is directed
to forward a certified copy of this
Ordinance and of the Certificate of
Award for the Bonds and any Note
Certificate of Award to the appropriate official of the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio and to secure a receipt
therefor.
Section 20. Severability.
Each section and each part of each
section of this Ordinance is hereby
declared to be an independent section
or part of a section and, notwithstanding any other evidence of legislative
intent, it is hereby declared to be the
controlling legislative intent that if
any such section or part of a section
or any provision thereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such provisions to any other person or circumstance, other than those as to which it
is held invalid, shall not be affected
thereby, and it is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent that the other
provisions of this Ordinance would
have been passed independently of
such section, or parts of a section, so
held to be invalid.
Section 21. Legislative Intent.
All terms, conditions, pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part
of the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority,
including its authority under its Charter and Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be
applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of
indebtedness, other obligations, trust
indentures, trust agreements, or other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City and for which
consideration was duly received by
the City prior to the passage of this
Ordinance or the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 22. Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the City
by providing funds to pay the costs of
certain permanent improvements
which are urgently needed for the
benefit of the City and for the usual
daily operation of a municipal department, and, provided this Ordinance
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest date allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

The City Record

February 2, 2011

31

Ord. No. 140-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make appropriations and provide current expenses for the daily operation of all
municipal departments of the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year from January 1, 2011 until December 31, 2011.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the daily operation of a municipal
department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That to provide for the current expenses for the City of Cleveland for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011, the following sums be and they are hereby appropriated viz:
The sum of Five Hundred Twelve Million, Three Hundred Two Thousand, Two Hundred Sixty Four Dollars
($512,302,264) from the General Fund;
The sum of Sixty Seven Million, Five Hundred Two Thousand, Nine Hundred Fifty Three Dollars ($67,502,953)
from the Special Revenue Funds;
The sum of Twenty Eight Million, Nine Hundred Forty Five Thousand, Seven Hundred Thirteen Dollars
($28,945,713) from the Internal Service Funds;
The sum of Six Hundred Seven Million, Two Hundred Fifty Six Thousand, Nine Hundred Thirty Four Dollars
($607,256,934) from the Enterprise Funds;
The sum of Nine Million, Six Hundred Thirty Seven Thousand, Six Hundred Nineteen Dollars ($9,637,619) from
the Trust and Agency Funds;
The sum of Sixty Three Million, Six Hundred Fifty One Thousand, Four Hundred Eighty Nine Dollars
($63,651,489) from the Debt Service Fund;
All set forth in the Mayor’s Estimate on file with Council and identified in the aggregate amount for each
department as follows:
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Branch
Judicial Branch
Executive Branch
General Government
Department of Aging
Department of Personnel
Department of Consumer Affairs
Department of Law
Department of Finance
Department of Port Control
Department of Public Service
Department of Public Health
Department of Public Safety
Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties
Department of Building & Housing
Department of Economic Development
Nondepartmental

$

6,650,734
40,337,301

8,166,796
893,378
1,845,302
227,583
8,155,643
13,822,539
279,654
35,779,491
5,442,018
302,369,902
36,805,346
9,166,268
1,503,898
40,856,411
———————
$ 465,314,229
———————
———————

Total Executive Branch
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$ 512,302,264
———————
———————

Special Revenue Funds
Internal Service Funds
Enterprise Funds
Trust and Agency Funds
Debt Service Funds

67,502,953
28,945,713
607,256,934
9,637,619
63,651,489
———————
$ 1,289,296,972
———————
———————

TOTAL PRELIMINARY APPROPRIATIONS FOR 2011

GENERAL FUND
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

6,650,734

4,652,849
1,997,885
———————
$
6,650,734
––——————
––——————

TOTAL LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

JUDICIAL BRANCH
Municipal Court - Judicial Division
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

115

$
$ 19,957,184
2,543,359

22,500,543

The City Record

32

February 2, 2011

Municipal Court - Clerk’s Division
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

9,053,376
5,326,446

Municipal Court - Housing Division
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

3,312,602
144,334

$

14,379,822

$

3,456,936

———————
$
40,337,301
––——————
––——————

TOTAL JUDICIAL BRANCH

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Office of the Mayor
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,193,331
128,616

Landmarks Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

175,531
4,582

Board of Building Standards and Appeals
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

109,885
10,242

Board of Zoning Appeals
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

189,281
12,730

Civil Service Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

552,379
634,319

Community Relations Board
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,117,508
67,738

City Planning Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,492,636
105,973

$

10,130

Office of Equal Opportunity
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

564,385
19,852

Office of Budget & Management-Budget Admin.
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

759,078
18,600

Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses

$

2,321,947

$

180,113

$

120,127

$

202,011

$

1,186,698

$

1,185,246

$

1,598,609

$

10,130

$

584,237

$

777,678

———————
$
8,166,796
––——————
––——————

TOTAL GENERAL GOVERNMENT

DEPARTMENT OF AGING
Department of Aging
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

893,378

767,120
126,258
———————
$
893,378
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF AGING

DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL
Office of Personnel
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL

116

$
$

1,845,302

1,038,290
807,012
———————
$
1,845,302
––——————
––——————

February 2, 2011

The City Record

33

DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS
Consumer Affairs
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

227,583

207,172
20,411
———————
$
227,583
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS

DEPARTMENT OF LAW
Department Law
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

8,155,643

6,429,586
1,726,057
———————
$
8,155,643
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF LAW

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Finance Administration
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

795,802
35,355

Division of Accounts
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

1,272,057
632,627

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

2,404,663
1,245,906

Division of Treasury
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

451,384
85,339

Division of Purchases and Supplies
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

544,244
33,672

Bureau of Internal Audit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

523,950
439,660

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,295,765
22,855

Information Systems Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,030,961
1,843,302

Information Tech & Planning
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

159,397
5,600

$

831,157

$

1,904,684

$

3,650,569

$

536,723

$

577,916

$

963,610

$

1,318,620

$

3,874,263

$

164,997

———————
$
13,822,539
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Division of Harbors
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

279,654

96,016
183,638
———————
$
279,654
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE
Public Service Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

117

$
$

385,642
9,862

395,504

34

The City Record
Division of Architecture
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.
Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

February 2, 2011
$

$

459,362

$

26,421,297

$

4,686,346

$

3,816,982

434,562
24,800

$ 14,506,830
11,914,467

Division of Engineering and Construction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

4,251,456
434,890

Division of Traffic Engineering
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

2,937,916
879,066
———————
$
35,779,491
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Public Health Administration
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

578,308
315,281

Division of Health
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,847,879
1,226,218

Division of Environment
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

915,401
156,419

Division of Air Quality
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

121,412
281,100

$

893,589

$

3,074,097

$

1,071,820

$

402,512

———————
$
5,442,018
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Public Safety Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

Division of Police
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 161,891,896
9,248,431

Division of Fire
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 87,106,345
3,113,475

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 19,071,747
2,641,222

Division of Animal Control Services
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Correction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

$

3,407,745

$

171,140,327

$

90,219,820

$

21,712,969

$

1,159,469

$

14,729,572

2,313,273
1,094,472

863,148
296,321

$ 11,277,068
3,452,504
———————
$ 302,369,902
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Parks, Recreation, and Properties Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

118

$
558,670
143,471

702,141

The City Record

February 2, 2011

35

Division of Research, Planning, and Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

$

633,345

$

12,992,797

$

1,288,578

$

8,584,510

$

12,603,975

579,388
53,957

Division of Recreation
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

9,498,523
3,494,274

Division of Parking Facilities-On Street
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

1,227,804
60,774

Division of Property Management
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,771,656
2,812,854

Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

8,141,526
4,462,449
———————
$
36,805,346
––——————
––——————

TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES

DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND HOUSING
Building and Housing Dir Office
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,405,973
357,498

Division of Code Enforcement
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,725,174
185,318

Division of Construction Permit
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

1,476,379
15,926

$

1,763,471

$

5,910,492

$

1,492,305

———————
$
9,166,268
––——————
––——————

TOTAL BUILDING AND HOUSING

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Economic Development
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

1,503,898

1,475,212
28,686

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

———————
$
1,503,898
––——————
––——————

NONDEPARTMENTAL
County Auditor Deductions
II.
Other Expenses

$

Other Administrative
II.
Other Expenses

$ 18,287,031

Transfer to Other Funds
II.
Other Expenses

$ 19,473,380

$

3,096,000

$

18,287,031

$

19,473,380

3,096,000

———————
$
40,856,411
––——————
––——————

TOTAL NONDEPARTMENTAL

TOTAL EXECUTIVE BRANCH

$ 465,314,229
––——————
––——————

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$ 512,302,264
––——————
––——————
SPECIAL REVENUE FUND

Restricted Income Tax Fund
I.
Capital
II.
Debt Service

$
$

119

7,961,277
25,555,664

33,516,941

The City Record

36

February 2, 2011

Street Construction, Maintenance & Repair Fund
Personnel and Related Expenses
$ 14,445,498
I.
Other Expenses
11,040,514
II.

$

25,486,012

Schools Recreation & Cultural Activities Fund
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,000,000

$

Rainy Day Fund
II.
Other Expenses

$

7,500,000

$

1,000,000

7,500,000
———————
$
67,502,953
––——————
––——————

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
Information Systems ServicesTelephone Exchange
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,146,980
5,125,556

Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
II.
Other Expenses

$

5,647,635
13,804,400

Division of Printing and Reproduction
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses
II.

$

833,135
1,497,751

City Storeroom and Central Warehouse
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

113,336
776,920

$

6,272,536

$

19,452,035

$

2,330,886

$

890,256

———————
$
28,945,713
––——————
––——————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
Utilities Administration
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$

2,001,495
687,973

$

422,122
1,627,069

$

2,827,028
512,964

Radio
I.
II.

Personnel and Related Expenses
Other Expenses

Division of Fiscal Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
Division of Water
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 77,114,602
166,695,398

Division of Water Pollution Control
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 10,650,740
11,521,260

Division of Cleveland Public Power
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$ 28,777,766
134,516,234

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES

$

2,689,468

$

2,049,191

$

3,339,992

$

243,810,000

$

22,172,000

$

163,294,000

———————
$ 437,354,651
––——————
––——————

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
Divisions
Airports I.
II.

of Cleveland Hopkins & Burke Lakefront
Operations
Personnel and Related Expenses
$ 32,651,987
Other Expenses
106,418,455

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL

120

$

139,070,442

———————
$ 139,070,442
––——————
––——————

The City Record

February 2, 2011

37

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND PROPERTIES
Division of Cemeteries
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

1,269,679
495,858

Golf Course Fund
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

602,550
523,465

Division of Parking Facilities-Off Street Parking
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
$
II.
Other Expenses

1,129,418
8,731,656

Division of Convention Center
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

$

1,132,193
1,325,541

$

421,903
659,578

Division of Convention Center & StadiumWest Side Market
Personnel and Related Expenses
I.
Other Expenses
II.

Division of Convention Center & Stadium-Stadium
II.
Other Expenses
$ 14,500,000
Division of Property Management East Side Market
II.
Other Expenses

$

1,765,537

$

1,126,015

$

9,861,074

$

2,457,734

$

1,081,481

$

14,500,000

$

40,000

40,000
———————
$
30,831,841
––——————
––——————

TOTAL PARKS, RECREATION, & PROPERTIES
TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

$ 607,256,934
––——————
––——————
AGENCY FUND

Central Collection Agency
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

9,637,619

5,962,009
3,675,610
———————
$
9,637,619
––——————
––——————

TOTAL AGENCY FUND

DEBT SERVICE FUND
Sinking Fund Commission
I.
Personnel and Related Expenses
II.
Other Expenses
III.
Debt Service

$
$

63,651,489

179,432
868,800
62,603,257
———————
$
63,651,489
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

Section 2. That the appropriations herein made are based upon the detail of expenditures set forth in the Mayor’s
Estimate, but are appropriated to the several departments, offices, and purposes in the aggregate for I. - Personnel and Related Expenses; and II. - Other Expenses and are not severally and individually appropriated in
said detail. Any unencumbered balance in an appropriation fund at the close of the year 2010 is hereby appropriated to such fund for the payment of unpaid obligations lawfully incurred in 2011 or prior years. The Mayor’s
Estimate, File No. 140-11-A, as modified by the schedule published pursuant to Section 39 of the Charter shall
within the sums appropriated in Section 1 hereof, constitute the expenditure budget for the year 2011 and shall
be subject to the control of the Mayor, provided, however, that no transfer from I. - Personnel and Related Expenses, or II. - Other Expenses within any department or office, or from one department or office to another shall be
made except as provided in Section 41 of the Charter.
Section 3. That the Commissioner of Accounts is authorized to draw warrants upon the City Treasury for the
amount appropriated in this ordinance, whenever claims are presented properly approved by the head of the
department or by the chief of a commission for which indebtedness was incurred.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force at the earliest period allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

121

38
Ord. No. 143-11.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into a contract with EnerNOC
Inc. for participation in EnerNOC’s
demand response program by the
Division of Water for a period of two
years with one two-year option to
renew exercisable by the Director of
Public Utilities.
Whereas,
PJM
Interconnection
(“PJM”) is a regional transmission
organization that provides electric
transmission services to utilities in
the region including, as of June 1,
2011, Cleveland Public Power; and
Whereas, PJM conducts demand
response programs that are designed
to compensate retail customers that
are willing to curtail their consumption when requested by PJM to relieve
overloading on the PJM system,
which will help prevent blackouts
and help maintain reliable and affordable electricity across the PJM system; and
Whereas, PJM requires retail customers to participate in the demand
response programs through authorized Curtailment Service Providers
that enter into contracts with multiple retail customers so that PJM does
not have to coordinate the reduction
in consumption by individual customers; and
Whereas, by separate resolution,
this Council has authorized Curtailment Service Providers to operate in
Cleveland Public Power’s service
area; and
Whereas, the Division of Water
desires to participate in the demand
response program by using its emergency back-up generators to enable it
to reduce its consumption; and
Whereas, the Division of Water will
not be required to reduce consumption if such action would impair its
ability to provide reliable water service to its customers; and
Whereas, the Division of Water
solicited qualifications from companies authorized to participate in the
PJM program; and
Whereas, EnerNOC, Inc. met all of
the evaluation criteria the Division of
Water used to determine the best supplier; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
contract with EnerNOC Inc., to serve
as the Curtailment Service Provider
for the Division of Water based on its
proposal dated December 10, 2010 for
a period of two years with one twoyear option to renew exercisable by
the Director of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the compensation to
be paid under this ordinance shall be
deposited into Fund No. 52, and is
appropriated for the purpose of maintaining emergency back-up generators at the Division of Water.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.

The City Record
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 144-11.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution authorizing participation by Cleveland Public
Power customers in demand response
programs in the PJM Interconnection
LLC market and determining the initial criteria and conditions governing
such participation.
Whereas, Cleveland Public Power
(CPP) is a member of the PJM Interconnection LLC, (PJM) a regional
transmission organization that operates the region’s electric transmission grid, provides transmission services to its members, and operates
regional markets for capacity, energy
and other electricity services; and
Whereas, as required by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(FERC), PJM has adopted “Demand
Response” programs that allow customers to offer to reduce their electricity use in certain circumstances
including during an emergency
event; and
Whereas, currently a customer’s
Demand Response may be offered
into PJM’s markets if the Demand
Response resource meets PJM’s technical requirements and if the laws or
regulations of the relevant electric
retail regulatory authority (RERRA)
permit such offers; and
Whereas, retail customers participate in Demand Response in PJM
through members called curtailment
service providers (CSPs), who act as
agents for the customers; and
Whereas, under PJM’s Demand
Response program, a customer whose
Demand Response registration is
approved is entitled to be compensated for being on call and ready to
reduce energy usage on request; and
Whereas, CPP customers will be eligible to participate in the PJM
Demand Response programs beginning June 1, 2011, and CPP desires to
provide its customers with the opportunity to do so; and
Whereas, in the case of utilities
(such as CPP) that distributed 4 million megawatt-hours or less in the
previous fiscal year, a CSP may register Demand Response as resources in
the PJM markets only with the permission of the utility’s RERRA,
which for CPP is this Council; and
Whereas, this Council has determined that it is desirable to authorize
the participation of CPP retail customers, acting through a CSP, in
PJM’s Demand Response programs,
provided that the CSP satisfies eligibility criteria and certain other specified requirements that are deemed
necessary to protect other CPP customers and the CPP system from
adverse effects; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council establishes the following procedures for
authorization of a Curtailment Service Provider (CSP) to register enduse customer Demand Response capability in the markets operated by PJM
Interconnection, L.L.C. beginning
June 1, 2011:
(a) The aggregate amount of
Demand Response capability that
may be offered into PJM’s Demand
Response programs by all CSPs shall
not exceed 30 megawatts at any given
time, unless the 30 megawatt limit is

122

February 2, 2011
waived by CPP in its discretion.
(b) Registrations to participate in
PJM’s Demand Response programs
shall be processed in the order
received until the aggregate amount
of Demand Response capability that
cleared the market (not to exceed 30
megawatts) is reached, after which
no further registrations may be
accepted by PJM or CPP, unless the 30
megawatt limit is waived by CPP. If a
CSP cancels a previously approved
PJM Demand Response registration,
or if the CSP or a customer’s participation in PJM’s Demand Response
programs is terminated, the difference between 30 megawatts and the
aggregate amount of remaining
Demand Response capability authorized by CPP shall be made available
to other CSPs through notice posted
on CPP’s website.
(c) The Demand Response may be
offered in the PJM market only with
respect to PJM’s Emergency Load
Response Program, including both
the Full Emergency and Capacity
Only Options, and not PJM’s other
markets unless approved by CPP.
(d) The criteria and detailed procedures governing CSP applications for
authorization to participate in PJM’s
Demand Response programs shall be
posted on the CPP website along with
a list of authorized CSPs and the total
CPP customer load currently subject
to reduction through CSP participation in PJM’s Demand Response programs. CPP may revise the posted criteria and detailed procedures at any
time, as and when CPP may deem it
necessary or appropriate to do so.
(e) (i) A CPP end-use customer that
wishes to register its Demand
Response capability for participation
in the PJM market may do so only
through a CSP that has been authorized, following application to CPP,
to engage in such activity. To obtain
such authorization, a CSP must submit a written application to CPP
using the form for such applications
posted on CPP’s website. The application shall provide, at a minimum, the
following information:
(A) the name, address, and contact
information
for
the
individual
employed by the CSP who is assigned
responsibility for interacting with
CPP regarding customer participation in PJM Demand Response;
(B) complete emergency contact
information for the CSP, if different
from (A);
(C) the registration deadline, if
any, for such program; and
(D) to the extent known at the time
of application, the amount of the enduse customer’s Demand Response
capability that will be registered in
each PJM-operated market.
(ii) A CSP application for authorization also shall include a statement that the CSP is in good standing
with PJM, that the CSP has executed
all necessary PJM documents and has
met all PJM requirements for participation in PJM’s Demand Response
programs, that the CSP has obtained
any and all required state regulatory
authorizations or approvals, and that
the CSP is not the subject of any
active investigation or any complaint
proceeding conducted by or before
any local, state or federal agency,
including the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or by the PJM
Independent Market Monitor. If such
an investigation or complaint is pending, CPP may request additional
information to assist in evaluating
the application.
(iii) The authorization of a CSP
granted by CPP shall remain in force
for a period of five (5) years after

February 2, 2011
which the CSP must submit a renewal
application on a form to be provided
by CPP. During the five-year period a
CSP shall update the information contained in its application, including
increases or decreases in participation by end-use customer(s) in PJM’s
Demand Response programs, as and
to the extent necessary so that the
information contained in the application remains accurate and complete
and so that CPP has a current and
accurate record of the aggregate
demand of all CPP customers participating in PJM programs.
(iv) All information contained in a
CSP application submitted in accordance with these procedures shall be
true, accurate and complete, and shall
be verified as such by the sworn and
notarized signature of an officer of
the CSP.
(v) Within five business days after
receiving a completed application,
CPP shall notify the CSP in writing
whether its application has been
approved.
(f) Authorized CSPs shall make
available to CPP through the PJM
“Electronic Load Response System”
(eLRS) all information regarding the
identity of customers registered to
participate in Demand Response and
performance data during any actual
emergency events or test events. If
not included in the information posted through eLRS, each CSP also shall
advise CPP of the date and time of
each curtailment directive, the identity of the customers curtailed and the
amount and duration of each such
customer’s curtailment.
(g) CPP’s approval of an application submitted by a CSP hereunder
does not constitute or confer a franchise, grant, exclusive license, or
other property right. Rather, the right
created by CPP’s approval of an application submitted by a CSP hereunder
is in the nature of a revocable nonexclusive license.
(h) If CPP revokes a previously
approved authorization, the participation of any affected end-use customer
in PJM’s Demand Response programs
shall be terminated in a manner consistent with applicable provisions of
the PJM Operating Agreement, the
PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, and the PJM Reliability Assurance Agreement.
(i) If, at any time after its adoption,
this Resolution is withdrawn by
action of the Council without adoption of superseding procedures, CPP
thereafter shall reject any application submitted by a CSP hereunder.
Further, in such event, the participation in PJM’s Demand Response programs by any end-use customer under
a previously approved CSP application shall be terminated in a manner
consistent with applicable provisions
of the PJM Operating Agreement, the
PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, and the PJM Reliability Assurance Agreement.
(j) Neither CPP nor the City shall
have any obligation to hold financially harmless any CSP or end use customer that is affected by the withdrawal of this Resolution, the revocation of a previously approved CSP
application, CPP’s revision of its posted criteria or detailed procedures, or
any other action taken by CPP or the
City that is claimed to adversely
affect the rights or interests of any
CSP or end use customer that participates or seeks to participate in PJMoperated markets.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the mem-

The City Record
bers elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 135-11.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 131.07 and 131.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
1330-A-10, passed December 6, 2010,
relating to Special Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any other provision of Sections 131.07
or 131.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
this ordinance, the rent schedule for
the City Hall Rotunda shall first be
approved by this Council, and no contract for its rental shall be entered
into until such schedule is approved
by this Council. Any rental contract
for the City Hall Rotunda shall
address security and parking needs
and such other matters as the Director may require to protect the interests of the City.
Section 2. That Sections 131.07 and
131.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 1330-A-10, passed
December 6, 2010, are amended to read
as follows:
Section 131.07 Special Event Permits
For purposes of this Chapter, “special event” means a preplanned event
or series of events of less than a
week’s duration, sponsored by a public or private person or entity, which
is: (1) located wholly or partially on
property which is owned or maintained by the City of Cleveland; or (2)
located on any other property and
requires for its successful execution,
the provision and coordination of
municipal services to a degree significantly over and above that which the
City of Cleveland routinely provides
under ordinary everyday circumstances.
City buildings, parks and all other
real estate under control of the Director which have been constructed or
maintained for the benefit of the public shall be for the use of the public in
general under the Charter and ordinances of the City of Cleveland. To
that end, no person or entity shall be
given any special or exclusive privilege to use any public property under
the control of the Director without
first obtaining a permit under this
section. Additionally, the Director
shall ensure that proper coordination
occurs among necessary city departments to facilitate the use of city
streets for special event activities
including parades, marathons, foot
races/bike-a-thons, and all other
events requiring closure of a right-ofway.
All closures of city streets in conjunction with a special event shall be
approved by the Police Traffic Commissioner, Commissioner of Streets,

123

39
and Manager of Special Events, and
Marketing.
(a) The Director may establish
rules and regulations for the use of
public property under his control.
Such rules and regulations shall
become effective ten days after publication in the City Record and shall be
enforced as ordinances of the City.
(b) The Director may place reasonable time restrictions on the issuance
of special event permits, including
without limitation a prior notice
requirement, first-come, first-served
scheduling, limitations on frequency
of use, and limitation of permits to
normal operating hours for City property. Use of the City Hall Rotunda for
events other than City-sponsored
events, shall be limited to after normal business hours and weekends.
The Director’s prior notice requirement may not exceed five days for
special event permits not subject to
the requirements of Section 131.08.
(c) The Director may place reasonable place restrictions on the issuance
of special event permits, which
restrictions may consider the historic
use of the property, recreational use
policies adopted in the director’s rules
and regulations, the size of the property and the degree to which the special event would interfere with the
historic use and adopted recreational
use policies for the property.
(d) The Director may deny or
revoke a special event permit whenever he finds:
(1) the applicant person or entity
has previously violated the provisions of a special event permit or has
submitted materially false or incomplete information on any special
event permit application; or
(2) the special event would unreasonably interfere with the movement
of or service capability of police vehicles, firefighting equipment or ambulance service; or
(3) the special event would unreasonably interfere with the historic
recreational use and the adopted
recreational use policies for a neighborhood park; or
(4) the special event would unreasonably interfere with another special event for which a permit has been
issued; or
(5) the special event would unreasonably interfere with the City activities that occur on or at the property.
The Director may charge a permit
application fee, subject to approval of
Board of Control, in an amount not to
exceed the Director’s cost in administering such application.
Section 131.08 Special Event Concession Agreement and Charges
Every person or entity sponsoring a
special event involving sale of items,
admission for which a charge or ticket is required or limited to invitation
only, or closure of more than one-half
linear mile of City streets shall comply with the following requirements:
(a) obtain a permit under Section
131.07, provided, however, that prior
to the issuance of a permit to use City
property managed by a City department other than the Department of
Public Works, the director of the
affected department must consent to
the issuance of the permit;
(b) submit an application in a form
approved by the director of the affected department or his designee within
such time period prior to the special
event as may be established by the
Director;
(c) if the special event is to be located wholly or partially on property
which is owned, leased or maintained
by the City of Cleveland, pay property

40
rent in scheduled amounts determined from time to time by the Board
of Control; in setting rents, the Board
of Control may consider without limitation the following considerations
entitling the applicant to a reduced or
abated rent:
(1) the economic impact of the special event on the Greater Cleveland
economy as reflected in sales taxes,
occupancy
taxes,
and
transient
admission taxes;
(2) the extent to which the special
event will preserve the City’s recreational use immunity provided in RC
1533.181 on all property used for the
special event;
(3) the percentage of the special
event gross revenues which will
accrue to a charity or charities qualifying under Section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code.
(d) pay all costs, at scheduled rates
as determined from time to time by
the director of the affected department or designee and approved by the
Board of Control, for services and
equipment exceeding normal service
levels incurred during a special event
by the City’s Department of Public
Works;
(e) pay such additional costs for
services exceeding normal service
levels incurred during the special
event by other City departments at
scheduled rates determined by the
director of the affected department or
his designee and approved from time
to time by the Board of Control;
(f) provide such services at the
applicant’s sole cost, including without limitation security and traffic
control, crowd management, fire protection, food service control and
inspection, waste and litter control,
and any other services necessary to
ensure than an event is conducted in a
safe manner to protect the safety,
health, property and general welfare
of the City’s citizens, as determined
by the director of the affected department or his designee and approved by
the Board of Control; and
(g) submit an independently audited statement of gross revenues
derived from the special event within
such time period after the special
event as may be specified by the
director of the affected department or
his designee.
(h) After January 1, 1992, each
annual Board of Control resolution
establishing special event rental
rates and service cost recovery
amounts shall only become effective
sixty days after publication in the
City Record. Notwithstanding any
provision of the Codified Ordinances
to the contrary, the councilmember of
each ward may designate one special
event per year to be exempt from
either (a) the payment of any sums
described herein; and the submission
of an audited statement under division (g) of this section, or division (b)
if the special event is located in the
ward of the councilmember requesting exemption, has gross revenues of
under twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00), and at least ninety percent (90%) of its gross special event
revenues accrue to a communitybased organization or to a charity
qualifying under Section 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code, the payment of any sums described herein,
the submission of an audited statement under division (g) of this section, and the payment of any permit
fees to the City. The Director of Public Works shall submit a report on the
City costs and charges for special
events to the Clerk of Council at the
end of each calendar year.

The City Record
Section 3. That existing Sections
131.07 and 131.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1330-A-10,
December
6,
2010,
are
passed
repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 137-11.
By Council Members Mitchell,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance giving
final consent of the City of Cleveland
to the State of Ohio for the rehabilitation of the East 93rd Street Bridge;
and authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to enter into contracts
with the State of Ohio.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 54910, passed June 7, 2010, this Council
authorized the City of Cleveland to
cooperate with the Director of Transportation for the rehabilitation of the
East 93rd Street Bridge, which
includes the rehabilitation of the
existing 6 simple span riveted plate
girders of steel pier caps encased in
concrete with concrete gravity abutments, over Norfolk Southern Railroad and Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority. Rehabilitation
work includes a new superstructure,
steel rolled beams, concrete deck,
south abutment and 2 piers. Modify
north abutment, utilities to be included with the contract are sanitary,
storm, water and electrical duct bank.
All other utilities will be relocated by
others, lying within the City of Cleveland (the “Improvement”); and
Whereas, the City shall cooperate
with the Ohio Director of Transportation in the above described project by
assuming and bearing one hundred
percent (100%) of the entire cost of
the Improvement, less the amount of
Federal-aid funds set aside by the
Director of Transportation for the
financing of this Improvement from
funds allocated by the Federal Highway Administration, U.S. Department
of Transportation, and further, the
City agrees to assume and bear one
hundred percent (100%) of the cost of
Preliminary Engineering and Rightof-Way, including in-house preliminary engineering and Right-of-Way
charges incurred by the State of Ohio;
and
Whereas, the share of the City’s
cost of the Improvement is now estimated to be $1,032,914.00 but may be
adjusted when the percentages of
actual costs are determined; and
Whereas, the Ohio Director of
Transportation has approved the legislation proposing cooperating and
has caused to be made plans and specifications and an estimate of costs
and expense for the Improvement and
has transmitted copies of the same to
this legislative authority; and
Whereas, the City desires the Ohio
Director of Transportation to proceed
with the Improvement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

124

February 2, 2011
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
requests the Ohio Director of Transto
proceed
with
the
portation
Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of Capital Projects is empowered on behalf
of the City to enter into contracts with
the Ohio Department of Transportation’s (“ODOT’s”) pre-qualified consultants for the preliminary engineering phase of the Project and to enter
into contracts with the Director of
Transportation necessary to complete
the Improvement. Upon the request of
ODOT, the Director of Capital Projects is also empowered to assign all
rights, title, and interests of the City
to ODOT arising from any agreement
with its consultant in order to allow
ODOT to direct additional or corrective work, recover damages due to
errors or omissions, and to exercise
all other contractual rights and remedies afforded by law or equity.
Section 3. That, under Ordinance
No. 549-10, passed June 7, 2011, this
Council authorized payment to the
State of the City’s share of the
Improvement, payable from subordinate lien income tax bonds of the City
of Cleveland authorized by Ordinance
No. 459-10, and from Fund Nos. 20 SF
380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF 500, 20
SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20 SF 520, 20 SF 528,
and 20 SF 534, RQS 4004, RL 2011-4.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized and directed to transmit
to the State three (3) certified copies
of this ordinance immediately on its
taking effect, and it shall become the
basis
for
proceeding
with
the
Improvement.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 138-11.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Kelley and Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
employ one or more professional consultants to assess and develop management strategies, and implement
accepted recommendations, including
making recommendations regarding
management of the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two years, with
one option to renew for up to an additional year, exercisable with additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to assess

February 2, 2011
and develop management strategies,
and implement accepted recommendations, including making recommendations regarding management of the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period up to two
years, with one option to renew for up
to an additional year, exercisable
with additional legislative authority.
The Director of Public Utilities will
provide the Chair of the Public Utilities Committee and the Clerk of Council with an annual report after the
first year.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Utilities from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall not
exceed $1,250,000 annually, and shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001, 54
SF 001, and 58 SF 001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19.
Nays 0. Read second time. Read third
time in full. Passed. Yeas 18. Nays 1.
Those voting yea: Council Members
Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Conwell, Cummins,
Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane,
Kelley, Miller, Mitchell, Pruitt, Reed,
Westbrook, Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Member
Polensek.
Ord. No. 139-11.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
an agreement with Erin McIntyre for
professional services to assist with
legislative and various Council matters for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to enter into an agreement with Erin McIntyre for professional services to assist with legislative and various Council matters for
Cleveland City Council. This agreement shall be entered into as of February 1, 2011 and shall terminate May
31, 2011. The agreement shall be certified for $8,100.00 from fund number 01,
subfund 001, account 6320.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 141-11.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance of a Temporary Sidewalk Occupancy Permit to Ilias
Piperis to engage in peddling in Ward
14.
Whereas, pursuant to Section 675.07
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified Ordinances”) the consent of Council
expressed by ordinance is a prerequisite to peddling upon public rights of
way outside of the Central Business
District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the request of to engage in peddling to Anita Lillard outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow Anita Lillard peddle
in Ward 14; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by, Section 675.07 of
the Codified Ordinances to allow to
Ilias Piperis to engage in mobile peddling in the public rights of way of
Ward 14 at West 25th Street between
Trowbridge and Woodridge.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons
named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the privilege granted may be revoked at any time by this
Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 142-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 23rd Annual Walk for
Hunger, on May 14, 2011, to benefit the
Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section
411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this Council consents to and approves the holding of
the 23rd Annual Walk for Hunger, to
benefit the Hunger Network of
Greater Cleveland, on May 14, 2011,
with the Walk beginning at Burke
Lakefront Airport and progressing to
Erieside, around the Browns Stadium,
south on West 3rd, west on St. Clair,
south on West 9th to Superior, east on
Superior to Ontario, south on Ontario
to Huron, east on Huron to Erie, east
on Erie to East 9th, north on East 9th

125

41
to Prospect; east on Prospect to
Huron; east on Huron to Euclid; west
on Euclid to East 12th; north on East
12th to Lakeside; west on Lakeside to
East 9th; north on East 9th to
Voinovich Park to the finish line, provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 149-11.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
the Department of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with Senior Outreach Services, Inc.,
for the Senior Health Promotion and
Specialization Program through the
use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Capital
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement with Senior Outreach Services, Inc. for the Senior Health Promotion and Specialization Program
for the public purpose of providing
health education and wellness activities to senior citizens residing in the
city of Cleveland through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $20,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record

42
Ord. No. 150-11.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
the Department of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with the Buckeye Area Development
Corporation for the Senior Landscaping and Snow Removal Program
through the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement with the Buckeye Area
Development Corporation for the
Senior
Landscaping
and
Snow
Removal Program for the public purpose of providing landscaping and
snow removal services to senior citizens residing in the city of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $41,900 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 145-11.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Sweeney, Kelley, Westbrook, Brancatelli, Mitchell, J. Johnson, Reed,
Miller, Cummins, Pruitt, Dow, Westbrook and Mayor Jackson.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the proposed closing of the East
55th Street state driver license testing
station.
Whereas, on January 28, 2011, the
Ohio Highway Patrol announced the
closing of the state driver license testing station located at East 55th Street
in Cleveland; and
Whereas, closing the E. 55th Street
testing station will leave the City
without a station within its city limits; and
Whereas, closing this station will
pose a hardship on residents of the
inner city in that the suburban locations may be difficult for inner-city
residents on both the east and west
sides of Cleveland to get to; and
Whereas, the $40,000 a year allegedly saved by closing the testing station
will have minimal impact on the state
budget; and
Whereas, no notice was given to
local and state elected officials prior
to the announcement and two weeks’
notice to the public of the closing is
inadequate; and

Whereas, the Ohio Highway Patrol
should delay taking action until they
meet with local elected officials; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
objects to the proposed closing of the
East 55th Street state driver license
testing station.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to forward a copy
of this resolution to Governor John
Kasich and to the appropriate persons at the Ohio Highway Patrol.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 146-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of liquor license of a
D5 Liquor Permit to 1222 Prospect
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
liquor license of a D5 Liquor Permit
from Club Center Lounge, Inc., DBA
Club Center Lounge, 8800 Woodland
Avenue, Lower Level, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 1572186 to
Club Center Lounge, Inc., DBA Xecutive Lounge, 1222 Prospect Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent
Number 15721860001; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.

126

February 2, 2011
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D5 Liquor Permit
from Club Center Lounge, Inc., DBA
Club Center Lounge, 8800 Woodland
Avenue, Lower Level, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 1572186 to
Club Center Lounge, Inc., DBA Xecutive Lounge, 1222 Prospect Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent
Number 15721860001; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 147-11.
By Council Member Dow.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objections to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 liquor permit and to the Liquor Agency Contract located at 5816 Superior Avenue,
and repealing Resolution Nos. 1642-10
and 1643-10.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
liquor permit located at S F T Enterprises, DBA Mr. CS II, 5816 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 7640194 by Resolution No. 1642-10 adopted by the Council on December 6, 2010, and to the
Liquor Agency Contract at S F T
Enterprises, DBA Mr. CS II, 5816 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 7640194 by Resolution No. 1643-10 adopted by the
Council on December 6, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objections to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objections to a
transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
liquor permit located at S F T Enterprises, DBA Mr. CS II, 5816 Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 7640194 by Resolution No. 1642-10 adopted by the Council on December 6, 2010, and to the
Liquor Agency Contract at S F T
Enterprises, DBA Mr. CS II, 5816 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44103,
Permanent Number 7640194, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution Nos. 1642-10 and 1643-10,

February 2, 2011
containing such objections, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 148-11.
By Council Members Miller, Brancatelli and Sweeney.
An emergency resolution opposing
House Bill 45 of the 129th Ohio General Assembly that would amend the
Ohio Revised Code to allow concealed
carry licensed gun owners to take
their gun into a restaurant or bar that
serves liquor, so long as the licensed
person does not consume alcohol, and
would repeal specific prohibitions
improperly
handling
against
firearms in a motor vehicle.
Whereas, House Bill 45 sponsored
by State Representatives Danny Bubp
(R) and Terry Johnson (R), would
amend the Ohio Revised Code to allow
concealed carry licensed gun owners
to take their guns into a restaurant or
bar that serves liquor, so long as the
licensed person does not consume
alcohol; and
Whereas, Senate Bill 45 also would
repeal specific prohibitions against
improperly handling firearms in a
motor vehicle, including repealing
the current requirement that a
licensed gun owner must keep a
loaded handgun in a motor vehicle in
a holster, a closed container, or glove
compartment; and
Whereas, Senate Bill 45 was introduced in the 129th General Assembly
on January 26, 2011; and
Whereas, Senator Nina Turner, a
Democrat from Cleveland, opposed
former Senate Bill 239 on the same
issue last year in the Senate because
of concerns that the bill will make
Ohioans less safe; and
Whereas, former Senate Bill 239 on
the same issue drew objections from
leaders in the law enforcement community and House Bill 45 is expected
to do the same; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes
House Bill 45 of the 129th Ohio General Assembly that would amend the
Ohio Revised Code to allow concealed
carry licensed gun owners to take
their gun into a restaurant or bar that
serves liquor, so long as the licensed
person does not consume alcohol, and
would repeal specific prohibitions
against
improperly
handling
firearms in a motor vehicle.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution to Representatives Danny Bubp and Terry
Johnson, the 129th Ohio General
Assembly and Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place on
final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

43
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:25 p.m. to meet on Monday, February 7, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the
Council Chambers.

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 1631-10.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from University Hospitals for the 2011 Cuyahoga County OVI Task Force Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 9-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
United States Department of Homeland Security for the Fire Prevention
and Safety grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 15-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
United States Department of Homeland Security for the Assistance to
Firefighters Grant; and authorizing
the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of materials, equipment, supplies, and services, including self-contained breathing apparatus and accessories, needed to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 90-11.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 3rd Street (99 feet
wide) and Summit Avenue N.E. (80
feet wide).
Approved by Directors of Public
Office of Capital Projects, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committees on Public
Service and City Planning; Passage
recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.

127

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

January 26, 2011
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, January 26,
2011, at 10:33 a.m. with Director Triozzi presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Withers, R. Smith, Cox, Acting Directors
Butler, H. Smith, Directors Rush,
Nichols, Fumich, and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas and Acting Director WalkerMinor.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
D.
Anthony,
Acting
Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 28-11.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Vance Outdoors, Inc. for an estimated
quantity
of
Ammunition,
items 2-5 and item 11, for the Division of Police, Department of Public
Safety, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
October 8, 2010, under the authority
of Section No. 135.065 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $140,720.00
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which contract shall provide for an initial
order, the cost of which shall be certified to the contract in an amount
not less than $42,095.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.

44
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Cox, Acting Directors Butler,
H.
Smith,
Directors
Rush,
Nichols, Fumich, and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas and Acting Director WalkerMinor.
Resolution No. 29-11.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Kiesler Police Supply, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of Ammunition,
items 1, 6-10 and 12, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public
Safety, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
October 8, 2010, under the authority
of Section No. 135.065 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $241,160.00
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which contract shall provide for an initial
order, the cost of which shall be certified to the contract in an amount
not less than $49,880.40.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Cox, Acting Directors Butler,
H.
Smith,
Directors
Rush,
Nichols, Fumich, and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas and Acting Director WalkerMinor.
Resolution No. 30-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 119-31-111 located at 2160 East
87th Street in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Tomeika R. Hurt, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified

The City Record
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Tomeika R. Hurt
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 119-31-111 located
at 2160 East 87th Street, according
to the Land Reutilization Program
in such manner as best carries out
the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Cox, Acting Directors ButH.
Smith,
Directors
Rush,
ler,
Nichols, Fumich, and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas and Acting Director WalkerMinor.
Resolution No. 31-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization
Program
(“Program”)
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 002-36-148 located at West 48th
Street in Ward 15; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Chris D. Ericson, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 15 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Chris D. Ericson
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 002-36-148 located
at West 48th Street, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Cox, Acting Directors But-

128

February 2, 2011
ler,
H.
Smith,
Directors
Rush,
Nichols, Fumich, and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas and Acting Director WalkerMinor.
Resolution No. 32-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land ReutiProgram
(“Program”)
lization
according to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised Code;
and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 121-32-021 located at 10801 Mt.
Carmel Avenue in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Michael M. Tatum, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of
Cleveland,
with
Michael
M.
Tatum for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 121-32-021
located at 10801 Mt. Carmel Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Withers,
R. Smith, Cox, Acting Directors Butler,
H.
Smith,
Directors
Rush,
Nichols, Fumich, and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson, Director
Dumas and Acting Director WalkerMinor.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.

The City Record

February 2, 2011
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2011
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 10-242: 4210 Franklin
Boulevard (Ward 3)
Ohio City Near West Development
Corporation
appeals
under
the
authority of Section 76-6 of the
Cleveland City Charter and Section
329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances from the decisions of the
Cleveland Department of Building
and Housing and issuing of Permit
No: B10034525 dated September 13,
2010, granting permission to establish use of a three-story wood frame
boarding house located in B1 TwoFamily District at 4210 Franklin
Boulevard as a youth hostel with 11
rooming occupancies.
Calendar No. 10-265: 3301 Monroe
Avenue (Ward 3)
Brandon
Partners,
owner,
and
Scrap Processors of Ohio LLC, tenant, appeal to establish use as a
recycling and storage facility for
auto parts and components materials on a corner acreage parcel in a
B1 General Industry District; contrary to Section 345.04(a)(3), a nonopaque fence is proposed within less
than 50 feet from a residence district to the east, where a non-transparent fence or wall 7 feet high is
required no less than 50 feet from
the residence district; and pursuant
to Section 347.06(d) storage of used
material shall not be piled higher
than 3 feet above the height of
fence or wall enclosing the storage;
no landscaping is proposed along
the east property line where a 10
foot wide landscaped transition strip
providing 75 percent year round
opacity is required and a landscaped
frontage strip 6 feet wide with 50
percent
year
round
opacity
is
required where new parking abuts
Monroe Avenue pursuant to Sections
352.08 through 352.10 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 10-266: 13933 Lakewood
Heights Boulevard (Ward 19)
Campbell Properties Incorporated,
owner, appeal for an addition to an
existing
gas
station/convenience
store and a new canopy located on

an irregular shaped corner lot in a
B1 Local Retail Business District;
subject to the limitations of Section
343.16 only remodeling an existing
service station is permitted and pursuant to Sections 343.11(b)(2)(I)(5)
a service station is first permitted
in a General Retail Business Disand
contrary
to
Sections
trict;
the
proposed
pump
343.15(b)(2)
canopy is 17 feet from the sidewalk
and no structure, including a pump
island, may be built less than 20
feet distant from the property line
adjacent to the public right of way.
Calendar No. 10-269: 2516 East 40th
Street (Ward 5)
Mt.
Herman
Baptist
Church,
owner, appeals to erect a 4' x 6' x
11' 2” high double faced message
ground sign on a 190' x 250' parcel
in a Local Retail Business District;
and the proposed sign is contrary to
the regulations for retail use and
structural type and first allowed in
a General Retail Business District
in
accordance
with
Section
350.14(b)(3) of the Cleveland Codified Ordnances.
Calendar No. 10-274: 4135 Lee Road
(Ward 1)
Toris Realty Company, owner,
David Grimmer and Jonathon Hayden, tenant, appeal to establish use
as a tattoo/body piercing parlor in
a one-story retail plaza space located in a C1 Shopping Center District
that abuts a residence district and
is within 1,000 feet of JFK High
School; and by the limitations of Section 343.04 the proposed use is not
permitted and first allowed in a
General Retail Business District,
provided that it meets the distance
separation of 1,000 feet pursuant to
Sections 347.12(b) of the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 11-1: 10435 Clifton Boulevard (Ward 16)
Ronald Marthaller, owner, appeals
for a change of use from a store to
a coffee shop within the easterly
portion of an existing three-story
nonconforming stores and dwelling
units
building
on
an
irregular
shaped,
southeasterly
corner
lot
located in an A1 One-Family District; subject to the limitations in
Section 359.01(a) and the required
approval from the Board of Zoning
Appeals to allow the substitution of
a nonconforming use; and pursuant
to Sections 349.04(f) accessory offstreet parking spaces are required
to be one for each employee, plus
one for each 100 square feet of floor
area devoted to patron use, or one
for each four seats based upon the
maximum
seating
capacity,
whichever is greater; and the front
yard encroachment of the coffee
shop/patio requires the Board of
Zoning Appeals approval in accordance with Sections 357.14(a) of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.

45
required according to Section 349.04;
a minimum lot area of 5,320 square
feet is provided contrary to 7,200
square feet and Section 355.04; the
interior side yards provided are 3
feet and a minimum of 8 feet is
required,
pursuant
to
Sections
357.09(2)(C) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 11-10: 3662 East 108th
Street (Ward 2)
Betty Russell, owner, appeals to
erect a 5' x 5' pre-manufactured
wheelchair lift in the front yard
area of a 40' x 117' parcel in a B1
Two-Family District and in the provisions of Sections 329.04(c)(1), a
wheelchair lift is not a permitted
encroachment in the front yard area.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2011
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
31, 2011, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The
following
Approved:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 10-255: 4622 Superior
Avenue
Ernest Adamic dba Safeway Tire
Company appealed for an expansion
of use at a used car sale lot and
storage facility to accommodate a
car wash and car detail center in a
Semi-Industry District; subject to
condition.
Calendar No. 10-261: 18101 Lorain
Avenue
Fairview Hospital appealed to
erect an addition to an existing hospital in a Local Retail Business District with an accessory helipad on
the building roof; approval granted
for the building addition only.
Calendar No. 10-178: 8116 Lorain
Avenue
Elsworth
Redden
appealed
to
establish use for a vehicle repair
garage and painting in a one-story
building located in a General Retail
Business District.
The following appeals were Withdrawn:
None.
The following appeals were Dismissed:
None
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 10-258: 935 East 146th
Street postponed to March 14, 2011.

Calendar No. 11-2: 3299 East 142nd
Street (Ward 1)
EJ Fletcher, owner, appeals to
change use from two dwelling units
to a three family dwelling (third
unit located in the attic) of an existing residence located on a 40' x 133'
lot in a B1 Two-Family District; contrary to the zoning regulations and
first allowed in a Multi-Family District in Section 337.08; two parking
spaces are provided and three are

129

Calendar No. 10-267: 7835 Harvard
Avenue postponed to March 14,
2011.
Calendar No. 10-179: 3292 Fulton Road
postponed to April 4, 2011.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on January 24, 2011 were
adopted and approved on January
31, 2011.

The City Record

46
The
following
Approved:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 10-252: 2014 West 53rd
Street
West 53rd Street LLC and Nadia
Hutchins appealed to change use
from a machine shop to a photography studio and gallery on the first
floor and a dwelling unit on the second floor in a Local Retail and General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 10-253: 690 East 156th
Street
The Diocese of Cleveland, St.
Mary’s Church and Father John
Kumse appealed to install 154 linear
feet of 6 feet high ornamental fence
on a parcel in a Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 10-254: 695 East 155th
Street
The Diocese of Cleveland, St.
Marys Church and Father John
Kumse appealed to install 213 linear
feet of 6 feet high ornamental fence
on a parcel in a Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 10-244: 4043 St. Clair
Avenue
Wai Hung Ltd. Liability and Man
Hang Tang, owner, and Maurice
Blue, tenant, appealed to establish a
tattoo parlor in a Residence Industry District; subject to conditions.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 10-230: 4210 Franklin
Boulevard
Fred Pressler appealed from the
decision of the Deputy Director of
the Cleveland Department of Building and Housing regarding a Certificate of Occupancy issued October
22, 2010.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
female
business
enterprise
each
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2011

PUBLIC NOTICE
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
CLEVELAND CITY COUNCIL
Request for Proposals for professional services to provide a software
solution and services necessary to
update, customize, and implement
the City Council Website, and to create a City Council Intranet site. Proposals due by February 25, 2011.
The City Council website must provide clear and concise information
for citizens of Cleveland regarding
the work of the Council, as well as
access to the various services of the
City of Cleveland and the City Council.  For more information and to see
the Request for Proposals, go to
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
or
call (216) 664-4466.
January 26, 2011, February 2, 2011, February 9, 2011, February 16, 2011 and
February 23, 2011

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

File No. 11-11 — Neutralization
Chemicals (Re-Bid), for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.24 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY,
FEBRUARY 3, 2011 AT 10:00 A.M.
THE CARL B. STOKES PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
4TH
FLOOR ATRIUM CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

February 2, 2011
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2011
File No. 15-11 — Reconstruction of
Cedar Avenue (E. 21st Street to
E. 55th Street), for the Division of
and
Construction,
Engineering
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance Nos. 812-09,
1425-08 and 1273-09, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 1, 2009 and December 10, 2008
and December 7, 2009, respectively.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
IN
THE
SPECIFICATIONS
AMOUNT
OF
SEVENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS ($75.00)
IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND OR MONEY ORDER ONLY
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
(NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2011
AT 10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 518, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.

February 2, 2011 and February 9, 2011
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2011
File No. 13-11 — Morgana Run,
Phase I East 71st and 72nd
Street: Aetna and Union Avenue,
for the Division of Engineering and
Construction, Department of Public
Works, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1201-10, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, November
20, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT
OF
SEVENTY-FIVE
DOLLARS ($75.00)
IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND OR MONEY ORDER ONLY
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011 AT
10:00 A.M. CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 518, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.

February 2, 2011 and February 9, 2011
THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2011

File No. 12-11 — Powdered Activated Carbon, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.24
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2011
AT 11:00 A.M. THE CARL B.
STOKES
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, 4TH FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

File No. 14-11 — Manholes, Casting,
Pull Boxes and Gratings, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Sections 129.25, 129.25
and 129.27 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2011 AT
10:30 A.M. THE TOM L. BUILDING, 1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

January 26, 2011 and February 2, 2011

February 2, 2011 and February 9, 2011

130

February 2, 2011
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 93-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 1628-38
Fall Street and repealing Resolution
No. 1080-10, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 1628-38
Fall Street by Resolution No. 1080-10
adopted by the Council on August 18,
2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to Frank D.
Maenza, DBA Diamonds Men’s Club,
1628-38 Fall Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Number 5416875 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1080-10, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Res. No. 94-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3, D3A, and D6 Liquor Permit
at 1616 West 25th Street and repealing
Resolution No. 1087-10, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to 1616 West 25th Street by Resolution
No. 1087-10 adopted by the Council on
August 18, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
1616 Arabic Restaurant, Inc., DBA
Kan Zaman, 1616 West 25th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 6548374 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution No.
1087-10, containing such objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force imme-

The City Record
diately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Res. No. 95-11.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of a Liquor License of
a C2 Liquor Permit to 6206 Woodland
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a transfer of
Liquor License of a C2 Liquor Permit
from Donya Kareem, Inc., DBA Quick
Stop, 1054 East 71st Street, 1st floor
front, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 2260087 to Woodland
Supermarket, Inc., DBA Woodland
Supermarket, 6206 Woodland Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 9761591; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a transfer of
Liquor License of a C2 Liquor Permit
from Donya Kareem, Inc., DBA Quick
Stop, 1054 East 71st Street, 1st floor
front, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 2260087 to Woodland
Supermarket, Inc., DBA Woodland
Supermarket, 6206 Woodland Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 9761591, and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.

131

47
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Res. No. 96-11.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit a
5351-53 Dolloff road, and repealing
Resolution No. 1124-10, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
5351-53 Dolloff Road by Resolution
No. 1124-10 adopted by the Council on
August 18, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to Your
Place & Mine, LLC, DBA Your Place &
Mine, 5351-53 Dolloff Road, P.O. Box
27544, Cleveland, Ohio 44127, Permanent Number 9862110 be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1093-10, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Res. No. 97-11.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New D5J Liquor Permit at 15617
Waterloo Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New D5J
Liquor Permit at Kenneth Davis, DBA
Habor Pub, 15617 Waterloo Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 1970756; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and

48
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New D5J
Liquor Permit at Kenneth Davis, DBA
Habor Pub, 15617 Waterloo Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent
Number 1970756; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Res. No. 98-11.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D2, D2X, D3A, and D6 Liquor Permit
at 14731 Miles Avenue and repealing
Resolution No. 1071-10, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to 14731 Miles Avenue by Resolution No. 1071-10 adopted by the Council on August 18, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal
pursuant to “Cleveland City Council
agrees to withdraw this objection
because there is an appeal pending
before the Liquor Control Commission
relating to the 2009-10 renewal,
wherein the Division of Liquor Control upheld the City Council objection
and that matter has not been heard by
the Commission as of yet. The parties
have agreed that evidence from the
2010-11 renewal period is also admissible during the hearing before the
Commission when it is scheduled;”
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That objection to a D2,
D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
TT & B, Inc., DBA Atmosphere Bar &
Grill, 14731 Miles Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44128,
Permanent
Number
8774196 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 107110, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Res. No. 99-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 3661
East 93rd Street and repealing Resolution No. 1093-10, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 3661
East 93rd Street by Resolution No.
1093-10 adopted by the Council on
August 18, 2010; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit to 93 Aetna, Inc.,
3661 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44105, Permanent Number 6424592 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1093-10, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Res. No. 100-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
D4 Liquor Permit at 4595 Turney
Road, and repealing Resolution No.
1103-10, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
D4 Liquor Permit to 4595 Turney
Road by Resolution No. 1103-10 adopted by the Council on August 18, 2010;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure provid-

132

February 2, 2011
ing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D4
Liquor Permit to Old Timers Club of
Garfield Heights, Inc., 4595 Turney
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent Number 6530213 be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1572-05, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Res. No. 102-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Cummins.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio General Assembly to adequately fund behavioral health services in Ohio and further urging the
Ohio Department of Mental Health to
avoid reducing funding to the Alcohol, Drug Addiction & Mental Health
Services Board of Cuyahoga County
in the 408 Funding Formula for FY
2012.
Whereas, the residents of Cuyahoga County can live healthier lives
with access to quality mental health,
alcohol, drug and other prevention,
treatment and support services; and
Whereas, 2 out of 3 Ohioans are
impacted by a friend or family member with a mental illness or substance
abuse problem; and
Whereas, behavioral health care, as
treatment of mental illness and addiction goes hand in hand with traditional health care, which is the treatment
of the body; thus behavioral health
care is health care; and
Whereas, State general revenue
funds for community-based mental
health and substance abuse services
in Ohio were cut disproportionately in
the last biennial budget; and
Whereas, an increasing number of
County Boards, like the Alcohol, Drug
Addiction & Mental Health Services
Board
of
Cuyahoga
County
(ADAMHS) are unable to meet the
Medicaid match for behavioral health
services within the existing Medicaid
population; and
Whereas, ADAMHS is able to provide service to fewer and fewer
severely mentally ill and addicted
non-Medicaid eligible clients due to
the continued erosion of the behavioral health safety net; and
Whereas, in reviewing the 408 allocation formula, the Ohio Department
of Mental Health (ODMH) is looking
to reallocate distribution of state
funds in a way that would drastically
reduce funding to community boards
such as ADAMHS; and
Whereas, full implementation of
the proposed reallocation would mean
that funding to ADAMHS for community mental health services would be
reduced by 50%, leaving thousands of
people without mental health services, causing 240 consumers to lose
supported housing, reducing availability of suicide prevention and
other mental health crisis services,

February 2, 2011
and losing more than 450 jobs in the
behavioral health field; and
Whereas, this Council agrees with
the ADAMHS, the Ohio Association of
County Behavioral Health Authorities and the Ohio Council of Behavioral Health & Family Services
Providers that budget line items 408,
505 and 401 remain fully funded with
dollars being allocated to these
Boards for services in the community;
and agrees with the recommendation
that the Community Behavioral
Health Medicaid match be funded
from the Ohio Department of Jobs and
Family Services 525 line; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
urges the Ohio General Assembly to
adequately fund behavioral health
services in Ohio and further urges the
Ohio Department of Mental Health to
avoid reducing funding to the Alcohol, Drug Addiction & Mental Health
Services Board of Cuyahoga County
in the 408 Funding Formula for FY
2012.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to forward a copy
of this resolution to Governor John
Kasich; Tracy Plouck, Director of
ODMH; Orman Hall, Director of
ODADAS; Cheri Walter, CEO of the
Ohio Association of County Behavioral Health Authorities and each
member of the Cuyahoga County delegation in the Ohio House and Senate.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Res. No. 103-11.
By Council Members Miller, Cummins and J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution opposing
House Bill No. 3 of the 129th Ohio General Assembly that would amend the
Ohio Revised Code to repeal the
estate tax for the estates of individuals dying on or after January 1, 2011.
Whereas, House Bill No. 3 introduced on January 11, 2011 by Representatives Cheryl L. Grossman (R)
and Jay Hottinger (R) would amend
the Ohio Revised Code to repeal the
estate tax for the estates of individuals dying on or after January 1, 2011;
and
Whereas, the estate tax helps
address the imbalance of wealth by
taxing the wealthy; and
Whereas, currently Ohio levies an
estate tax of up to 7 percent on the net
value of an estate before its assets are
transferred to anyone else, but Ohio
doesn’t collect tax on an estate unless
its net taxable value is greater than
$338,333, according to the Taxation
Department; and
Whereas,
the
Census
Bureau
reports that Ohio’s 2009 median family income was about $57,000 – and the
median value of an Ohio owner-occupied housing unit about $135,000; and
Whereas, Ohio taxed only about
8,000 estates in the 12 months that
ended in June 2009, though about

The City Record
110,000 Ohioans – albeit of all ages
and financial circumstances – died in
calendar 2008; and
Whereas, abolishing the estate tax
would hurt local municipalities that
receive about 80 percent of estate tax
revenue – about $270 million in fiscal
year 2009; and
Whereas, with 80 cents of every $1
Ohio collects in estate tax being
returned to the city, village or township where the dead person lived, in
2008, for example $5.4 million went to
Cleveland, $2.3 million to Cleveland
Heights, $9.2 million to Columbus, $2
million to Upper Arlington, $785,000 to
Dayton, $3.6 million to Kettering, $1.5
million each to Springfield and
Hamilton, and $911,000 to Mason; and
Whereas,
Representative
Mike
Foley, a Democrat from Cleveland, is
concerned that without the estate tax,
local governments will be forced to
cut services and raise taxes on their
own citizens to make up for the shortfall; and
Whereas, Ohio Municipal League
Deputy Director John Mahoney said
that municipalities would like to see
some source of revenue that would
make up for that money if the state
chooses to repeal the estate tax; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes
House Bill No. 3 of the 129th Ohio General Assembly that would amend the
Ohio Revised Code to repeal the
estate tax for the estates of individuals dying on or after January 1, 2011.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution to Representatives Grossman and Hottinger,
the 129th Ohio General Assembly and
Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Res. No. 104-11.
By Council Members Reed, J. Johnson, Brady, Cleveland and Cummins.
An emergency resolution urging
Governor Kasich to reconsider his
stance on diversity and seek qualified
minorities to fill open state government positions.
Whereas, Governor Kasich has
assembled a cabinet devoid of racial
and ethnic diversity; and
Whereas, the last time an Ohio governor’s cabinet had no people of color
was 1962; and
Whereas, today Ohio’s population is
15% minority; and
Whereas, Ohio’s Latino community
is at 320,000; Ohio’s African-American
population is 1.4 million; 60% of Asian
Americans in Ohio hold college
degrees; and
Whereas, this Council believes that
the governor’s hires should reflect the
diversity of the state’s population;
and
Whereas, if the Governor’s cabinet
is not diverse, at the very least the
Governor should look to minorities
when appointing positions to commissions, directorships and other state
government jobs; and

133

49
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby
urges Governor Kasich to reconsider
his stance on diversity and seek qualified minorities to fill open state government positions.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit a copy
of this resolution to Governor John
Kasich, the Speaker of the Ohio
House, the Ohio House Minority
Leader, the President of the Ohio Senate, the Minority Leader of the Ohio
Senate, the Ohio Legislative Black
Caucus, the Hispanic Roundtable, the
SCLC of Cleveland, both the local and
state chapters of the NAACP, the
Urban League, the LGBT Community
Center of Greater Cleveland, the
Greater Cleveland Partnership and
the Ohio Asian American Coalition.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011 without
the signature of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 1601-10.
By Council Members Keane, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more amendments to
various contracts with United Air
Lines, Inc., Continental Airlines, Inc.,
Delta Air Lines, Inc., and Southwest
Airlines, to make changes in their
leased spaces at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into an
amendment to Contract No. 31262 with
United Air Lines, Inc. to delete
approximately 3,445 square feet of
holdroom space and adjacent ramp
area at Gates B-3 and B-5 and 2,283
square feet of Concourse B lower
level office space and to add approximately 3,947 square feet of holdroom
space and adjacent ramp area at
Gates C-21, C-22, and C-23 and 2,782
square feet of Concourse C lower level
office space.
Section 2. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into an
amendment to Contract No. 38171 with
Continental Airlines, Inc. to delete
approximately 3,947 square feet of
holdroom space and adjacent ramp
area at Gates C-21, C-22, and C-23 and
delete 2,782 square feet of Concourse
C lower level office space and to add
approximately 2,941 square feet of
holdroom space and adjacent ramp
area at Gates C-6 and C-8 and 2,787
square feet of Concourse C lower level
office space.
Section 3. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into an
amendment to Contract No. 31263 with
Delta Air Lines, Inc. to (i) delete
approximately 2,941 square feet of

50
holdroom space and adjacent ramp
area at Gates C-6 and C-8 and 2,787
square feet of Concourse C lower level
office space, 520 square feet of ticket
counter space and 1,060 square feet of
back office space located on the ticketing level, and 4,016 square feet of
baggage make-up, and (ii) add
approximately 3,445 square feet of
holdroom space and adjacent ramp
area at Gates B-3 and B-5 and 2,640
square feet of Concourse B lower
level space, 402 square feet of ticket
counter space, 1,667 square feet of
back office space located on the ticketing level and 2,224 square feet of
baggage make-up space. Of the 2,640
square feet of space on the lower level
of Concourse B, 357 square feet of
space shall be added, effective
November 2, 2010.
Section 4. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into an
amendment to Contract No. 46540 with
Southwest Airlines, Inc. to delete
approximately 402 square feet of ticket counter space and 1,667 square feet
of back office space on the ticketing
level and 2,224 square feet of baggage
make-up space and to add approximately 350 square feet of ticket
counter space and 975 square feet of
back office space on the ticketing
level and to add approximately 3,775
square feet of baggage make-up
space.
Section 5. That all other terms and
conditions of the contracts shall
remain the same.
Section 6. That the rental rate for
the new square footages authorized
by this ordinance shall be calculated
under the formula contained in the
signatory master lease agreement.
Section 7. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 8. That the Director of Port
Control, the Director of Law and other
appropriate city officials are authorized to execute any other documents
and certificates, and may take any
other actions which may be necessary
or appropriate to effect this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Ord. No. 1603-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 69064 with Kone, Inc. for
labor, equipment, and materials necessary for parts necessary to maintain and repair Kone elevators, escalators and moving walkways, including labor if necessary for the Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1615-08, passed November 17, 2008, the Director of Port Control entered into Contract No. 69064
with Kone, Inc. for labor, equipment,
and materials necessary for parts necessary to maintain and repair Kone
elevators, escalators and moving
walkways, including labor if necessary for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport; and

The City Record
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1615-08
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
first option to renew Contract No.
69064 for an additional year with
Kone, Inc. for the requirements of
labor, equipment, and materials for
parts necessary to maintain and
repair Kone elevators, escalators and
moving walkways, including labor if
necessary for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
This ordinance constitutes the additional legislative authority required
by Ordinance No. 1615-08 to exercise
this option. RQN 3001, RL 2010-57.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Ord. No. 1604-10.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 69128 with Standard Signs,
Inc. for airfield signage and installation and labor and materials to maintain and repair new and existing signage, for the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1588-06, passed November 17, 2008, the Director of Port Control entered into Contract No. 69128
with Standard Signs, Inc. for airfield
signage and installation and labor
and materials to maintain and repair
new and existing signage, for the
Divisions of Burke Lakefront Airport
and Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1588-06
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
first option to renew Contract No.
69128 for an additional year, with
Standards Signs, Inc. for the requirements of the necessary items of airfield signage and installation and
labor and materials to maintain and
repair new and existing signage, for
the Divisions of Burke Lakefront Airport and Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. This ordinance constitutes
the
additional
legislative
authority required by Ordinance No.
1588-06 to exercise this option. RQN
3001, RL 2010-58.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately

134

February 2, 2011
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Ord. No. 1614-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
employ one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants necessary to provide and install a PJM
settlement system, including but not
limited to training, implementation,
technical support, and maintenance;
authorizing the Director to acquire
one or more software licenses; and
authorizing the purchase by one or
more contracts of system equipment,
including but not limited to hardware, software, ancillary systems,
and related equipment, supplies and
services, including maintenance, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide and
install a PJM settlement system,
including but not limited to, training,
implementation, technical support,
and maintenance. The Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
acquire one or more software licenses
from one or more consultants or one
or more firms of consultants necessary to implement the PJM settlement
system, for a period up to two years.
The selection of the consultants for
the services and software licenses
shall be made by the Board of Control
on the nomination of the Director of
Public Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or
all of the following items: software
not acquired through Section 1 of this
ordinance, system equipment, including but not limited to hardware, ancillary systems, and related equipment,
supplies and services, including hardware and software maintenance and
technical support for a period up to
two years, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for a gross price, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.

The City Record

February 2, 2011
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. The Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
any third-party software license
agreements necessary to effectuate
the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 5. That the cost of contract
or contracts authorized shall be paid
from Fund No. 58 SF 001, RQS 2004, RL
2010-193.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Ord. No. 1628-10.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
employ one or more professional consultants to acquire licenses and provide a backup SCADA control center
at the East Side Service Center,
including installing, implementing,
integrating, interfacing, testing, and
training, and for maintenance, technical support, and other related issues
for a period up to two years; and
authorizing one or more standard purchase and requirement contracts for
the purchase, lease, or lease with
option to purchase of computer hardware, software, and other materials,
equipment, supplies, services, maintenance and technical support, for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period up to two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for

the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff
of the several departments of the City
of Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
acquire licenses and provide a backup
SCADA control center at the East Side
Service Center, including installing,
implementing, integrating, interfacing, testing, and training, and for
maintenance, technical support, and
other related issues for a period up to
two years.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Public Utilities from a
list of qualified consultants available
for employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Utilities for the
purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into
any third-party software license
agreements necessary to effectuate
the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written standard purchase
and requirement contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the
requirements for the purchase, lease
for a period up to two years, or lease
with option to purchase for a period
up to two years, of the necessary
items of computer hardware, software not acquired under Section 1 of
this ordinance, and other materials,
equipment, supplies, services, maintenance, and technical support on items

51
acquired under this Section, necessary to effectuate the purposes of this
ordinance, to be purchased or procured by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made for
all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids for
a period less than the specified term
may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 4. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase, which
purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the
contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through
cooperative
agreements
using state procedures. The Director
of Public Utilities may sign all documents with the State of Ohio or any of
its political subdivisions that are necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 6. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized by this
ordinance shall be paid from Fund No.
58 SF 001, RQS 2004, RL 2010-178.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Ord. No. 1633-10.
By Council Members Kelley and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to make alterations and modifications in Contract
No. 69353 with Petty Group, LLC for the Henninger Avenue sewer replacement, for the Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make the following alterations and modifications in
Contract No. 69353 with Petty Group, LLC, for the Henninger Avenue sewer replacement, for the Department of Public
Utilities:
Subsidiary Additions
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Change
Change
Change
Change
Change

Order
Order
Order
Order
Order

#1
#2
#3
#4
#5
Subsidiary Additions

$ 3,650.94
5,923.03
8,759.09
1,113.05
+ 4,309.10
$23,755.21

Subsidiary Credits

+1,699.60
$ 1,699.60

Subsidiary Credits
Less amount Remaining in contract

Subsidiary Additions
Subsidiary Credits
Total Subsidiary Additions

$23,755.21
- 1,699.60
$22,055.61

Original Contract Amount
Subsidiary Additions
REVISED CONTRACT AMOUNT

$379,166.78
+ 22,055.61
$401,222.39

135

The City Record

52

February 2, 2011

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the Director of Public Utilities, countersigned by the Mayor, and
consented to by the surety on the contract, which price to be paid has been agreed upon in writing and signed by the
Director of Public Utilities and the contractor. This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the original contract in the sum of $22,055.61 to be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF 500, 20 SF 506, 20 SF 510, 20
SF 520, 20 FS 528, and 20 SF 534, Request No. RQS 2003, RL 2010-201.
Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

Ord. No. 7-11.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 69948 with AirNet Systems,
Inc. to provide for the lease of space
to be used for flight planning and as a
layover rest area for flight crews at
Burke Lakefront Airport.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 850-09, passed November 9, 2009, the Director of Port Control entered into Contract No. 69948
with AirNet Systems, Inc. to provide
for the lease of space to be used for
flight planning and as a layover rest
area for flight crews at Burke Lakefront Airport; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 805-09
requires further legislation before
exercising the first option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the
City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to exercise the
first option to renew Contract No.
69948 for an additional year with AirNet Systems, Inc. to provide for the
lease of space to be used for flight

planning and as a layover rest area
for flight crews at Burke Lakefront
Airport, for the Department of Port
Control. This ordinance constitutes
the additional legislative authority
required by Ordinance No. 805-09 to
exercise this option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed January 24, 2011.
Effective January 31, 2011.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, January 31, 2011
9:00 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee & Public Safety Committee:
Present
in
Health:
Cimperman,
Chair;
Conwell,
Keane,
Kelley,
Reed. Authorized Absence: J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Zone.
Present in Safety: Conwell, Chair;
Polensek, Vice Chair; Brady, Cum-

mins. Authorized Absence: Cleveland, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.
2:00 p.m
Committee:
Present:
Finance
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Brady,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,
Pruitt, Westbrook.
Tuesday, February 1, 2011
10:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman,
Cummins,
J.
Johnson,
Miller, Westbrook, Zone. Authorized
Absence: Pruitt.
Wednesday, February 2, 2011
10:30 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation ComPresent:
Keane,
Chair;
mittee:
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell. Authorized Absence: K. Johnson.
1:30 p.m.
City Planning Committee: Present:
Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook, Vice
Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow, Keane,
Zone.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Clerk of Council — professional services — Erin McIntyre (O 139-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Consent agreement E. 93 Street bridge — Capital Projects — State of Ohio (O 137-11). . .
Senior Health Promotion and Specialization Program — Senior Outreach Services, Inc.
(Ward 06 NCF) (O 149-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Landscaping and Snow Removal Program — Buckeye Area Development Corp.
(Ward 06 NCF) (O 150-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126

Appreciation Resolutions
St. Augustine Church & Hunger Center (R 173-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88

Appropriations
Appropriations — Year 2011 — current expenses and other expenses — Finance
Department (O 140-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115

Board of Control - Community Development Department
East 87th Street, 2160 (Ward 6) — PPN 119-31-111 — Tomeika R. Hurt (BOC Res. 30-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
Mt. Carmel Avenue, 10801 (Ward 6) — PPN 121-32-021 — Michael M. Tatum (BOC Res. 32-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
West 48th Street (Ward 15) — PPN 002-36-148 — Chris D. Ericson (BOC Res. 31-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128

136

The City Record

February 2, 2011

53

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 87th Street, 2160 (Ward 6) — PPN 119-31-111 — Tomeika R. Hurt (BOC Res. 30-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
Mt. Carmel Avenue, 10801 (Ward 6) — PPN 121-32-021 — Michael M. Tatum (BOC Res. 32-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
West 48th Street (Ward 15) — PPN 002-36-148 — Chris D. Ericson (BOC Res. 31-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128

Board of Control — Police Division
Ammunition — per C.O. Sec. 135.065 to Kiesler Police Supply, Inc. — Dept. of Public
Safety (BOC Res. 29-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
Ammunition — per C.O. Sec. 135.065 to Vance Outdoors, Inc. — Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 28-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Ammunition — per C.O.
(BOC Res. 29-11) . .
Ammunition — per C.O.
(BOC Res. 28-11) . .

Sec.
....
Sec.
....

135.065 to Kiesler Police Supply, Inc. — Division of Police
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
135.065 to Vance Outdoors, Inc. — Division of Police
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Ammunition — per C.O. Sec. 135.065 to Kiesler Police Supply, Inc. — Division of Police,
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 29-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
Ammunition — per C.O. Sec. 135.065 to Vance Outdoors, Inc. — Division of Police, Dept.
of Public Safety (BOC Res. 28-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
East 146th Street, 935, (Ward 10) – Kimberly Vance, owner — appeal postponed to 3/14/11
on 1/31/11 (Cal. 10-258) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 155th Street, 695, (Ward 11) – The Diocese of Cleveland, St. Mary’s Church, owner
and Father John Kumse — appeal granted and adopted on 1/31/11 (Cal. 10-254) . . . . . . . .
East 156th Street, 690, (Ward 11) – The Diocese of Cleveland, St. Mary’s Church, owner
and Father John Kumse — appeal granted and adopted on 1/31/11 (Cal. 10-253) . . . . . . . .
Franklin Boulevard, 4210, (Ward 3) – Fred Presler, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
1/31/11 (Cal. 10-230). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Road, 3292, (Ward 14) – Pawaw Mangla, owner — appeal postponed to 4/4/11 on
1/31/11 (Cal. 10-179). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Avenue, 13017835, (Ward 12) – Catholic Diocese of Cleveland, owner and Treatment
Works, Inc., lessee — appeal postponed to 3/14/11 on 1/31/11 (Cal. 10-267) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 18101, (Ward 19) – Fairview Hospital, owner — appeal heard on 1/31/11
(Cal. 10-261) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 8116, (Ward 15) – Elsworth Redden, owner — appeal heard on 1/31/11
(Cal. 10-178) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 4043, (Ward 3) – Wai Hung Ltd. Liability and Man Hang Tang, owner and
Maurice Blue, tenant — appeal granted and adopted on 1/31/11 (Cal. 10-244) . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Avenue, 4622, (Ward 8) – Ernest Adamic, d.b.a. Safeway Tire Company, owner —
appeal heard on 1/31/11 (Cal. 10-255) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 53rd Street, 2014, (Ward 15) – West 53rd Street, LLC, owner, and Nadia Hutchins —
appeal granted and adopted on 1/31/11 (Cal. 10-252) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Clifton Boulevard, 10435, (Ward 16) – Ronald Marthaller, owner — appeal to be heard on
2/14/11 (Cal. 11-1). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
East 108th Street, 3662, (Ward 2) – Betty Russell, owner — appeal to be heard
on 2/14/2011 (Cal. 11-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 142nd Street, 3299, (Ward 1) – EJ Fletcher, owner — appeal to be heard on 2/14/11
(Cal. 11-2). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
East 40th Street, 2516, (Ward 5) – Mt. Herman Baptist Church, owner — appeal to be heard
on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-269) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
Franklin Boulevard, 4210, (Ward 3) – Ohio City Near West Development Corporation, owner —
appeal to be heard on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-242) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
Lakewood Heights Boulevard, 13933, (Ward 19) – Campbell Properties Incorporated, owner —
appeal to be heard on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-266) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
Lee Road, 4135, (Ward 1) – Toris Realty Company, owner, and David Grimmer and Jonathon
Hayden, tenant — appeal to be heard on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-274) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
Monroe Avenue, 3301, (Ward 19) – Brandon Partners, owner, and Scrap Processors of Ohio
LLC, tenant — appeal to be heard on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-266) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
Monroe Avenue, 3301, (Ward 3) – Brandon Partners, owner, and Scrap Processors
of Ohio LLC, tenant — appeal to be heard on 2/14/11 (Cal. 10-265). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129

137

The City Record

54

February 2, 2011

Bonds
Bridges and Roadway Improvement Bonds — Fifteen Million One Hundred Fifty-Five Thousand
Dollars — Finance Department (O 130-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cemeteries Improvement Bonds — Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars — Finance Department
(O 128-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — Two Million Ninety-Five Thousand
Dollars — Finance Department (O 129-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — Fourteen Million Two Hundred Thirty Thousand Dollars —
Finance Department (O 136-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 100
. . . . . . . . . . . 88
. . . . . . . . . . . 94
. . . . . . . . . . 108

Buckeye Area Development Corporation
Senior Landscaping and Snow Removal Program — agreement (Ward 06 NCF) (O 150-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126

Budget
Appropriations — Year 2011 — current expenses and other expenses — Finance
Department (O 140-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115

Capital Projects
Consent agreement E. 93 Street bridge — State of Ohio (O 137-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
East 3rd St., (99 feet wide) & Summit Ave. (80 feet wide) — intention to vacate portion —
City Planning Commission (Ward 03) (O 90-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127

City Council
Clerk of Council — agreement — professional services — Erin McIntyre (O 139-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Deputy Clerk of Council — Request for Proposal Publication — City Council website (F 151-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87

City of Cleveland Bids
Cedar Avenue reconstruction (East 21st St. to East 55th St.) — Department of Public Works —
Division of Engineering and Construction — per Ord. 812-09, 1425-08, 1273-09 — bid
due February 18, 2011 (advertised 2/2/2011 and 2/9/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chemicals, neutralization (Re-bid) — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water —
per C.O. Sec. 129.24 — bid due February 17, 2011 (advertised 1/26/2011 and 2/2/2011) . . . . . .
Manholes, castings, pull boxes and gratings — Department of Public Utilities — Division
of Cleveland Public Power — per C.O. Sec. 129.25, 129.27 — bid due March
3, 2011 (advertised 2/2/2011 and 2/9/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Run, Phase I (East 71st St., East 72nd St., Aetna Ave. and Union Ave.) —
Department of Public Works — Division of Engineering and Construction — per Ord.
1201-10 — bid due February 25, 2011 (advertised 2/2/2011 and 2/9/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Powdered activated carbon — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per C.O.
Sec. 129.24 — bid due February 17, 2011 (advertised 1/26/2011 and 2/2/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130

City Planning Commission
East 3rd St., (99 feet wide) & Summit Ave. (80 feet wide) — intention to vacate portion —
Capital Projects (Ward 03) (O 90-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127

Clerk of Council
Agreement — professional services — Erin McIntyre (O 139-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Deputy Clerk of Council — Request for Proposal Publication — City Council website (F 151-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69064 with Kone, Inc. — Kone elevators, escalators
and moving walkways (O 1603-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
Port Control — Amend Contracts 31262, 38171, 31263 46540 — with various airlines to swap
space (O 1601-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133

Cleveland Public Power
Utilities Department —
Utilities Department —
Utilities Department —
(O 1628-10) . . . . . . .

authorizes CPP customer to participate in PMJ (R 144-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
professional service — PMJ settlement system (O 1614-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
professional service — software and services for SCADA — CPP
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135

138

The City Record

February 2, 2011

55

Codified Ordinances
Amend Sect(s) 131.07 & 131.08 — Relating to Special Events (O 135-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123

Communications
Compliance Report — December 2010 — Equal Opportunity Office (F 174-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deputy Clerk of Council — Request for Proposal Publication — City Council website (F 151-11). .
Doan Classroom Apartments — East 105th St., 1350 — Famicos Foundation — Public Notification
Letter (Ward 08) (F 154-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State Senator Tom Sawyer — receipt of Resolution No. 1576-10 (support of House Bill
75) (F 152-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Extend Contract No. 68843 — Landrum and Brown, Incorporated (F 153-11) . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87

Community Development Department
Senior Health Promotion and Specialization Program — agreement — Senior Outreach Services,
Inc. (Ward 06 NCF) (O 149-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Senior Landscaping and Snow Removal Program — agreement — Buckeye Area Development Corp.
(Ward 06 NCF) (O 150-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
St. Clair Avenue — PPN 104-10-055 — Land Reutilization Program — Ohio Technical College
(Ward 08) (O 133-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108

Condolences Resolutions
Aron, Gloria (R 170-11) . . . . . . . . . . .
Blandon, Frazier Rufus (R 167-11) .
Burns, Jr., Dargan J (R 164-11) . . . .
Fisher, Stanley M. (R 163-11) . . . . . .
Grayer, Allean (Varner) (R 166-11)
Loyd, Eva Mae (R 169-11) . . . . . . . . .
Matthews, Julia Mae (R 165-11) . . . .
Solomon, Linda Byrd (R 168-11) . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

88
88
88
88
88
88
88
88

Contracts
Clerk of Council — agreement — professional services — Erin McIntyre (O 139-11) . . . . . . . . . . .
Consent agreement E. 93 Street bridge — Capital Projects — State of Ohio (O 137-11). . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — AlSher Titania, LLC — partially finance the purchase of machinery
and equipment — 842 East 79th St. (Ward 08) (O 131-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise first option to renew Contract No. 69128 with Standard Signs — Airfield Signage
(O 1604-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise first option to renew Contract No. 69948 — AirNet Systems, Inc. — leased space
for flight planning & layover rest area for flight crews (O 7-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69064 with Kone, Inc. — Kone elevators, escalators
and moving walkways (O 1603-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Amend Contracts 31262, 38171, 31263 46540 — with various airlines to swap
space (O 1601-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Port Control — Extend Contract No. 68843 — Landrum and Brown, Incorporated (F 153-11) . . . .
Subsidiary — Contract No. 69353 — Petty Group — Henninger Avenue sewer replacement
(Ward 13) (O 1633-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — EnerNOC Inc. (O 143-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — Management Strategies — professional services (O 138-11) . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — professional service — PMJ settlement system (O 1614-10) . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

135
122
124
134

Economic Development Department
Contract — AlSher Titania, LLC — partially finance the purchase of machinery and equipment —
842 East 79th St. (Ward 08) (O 131-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107

Famicos Foundation
Doan Classroom Apartments — East 105th St., 1350 — Famicos Foundation — Public Notification
Letter (Ward 08) (F 154-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87

Finance Department
Appropriations — Year 2011 — current expenses and other expenses — Finance
Department (O 140-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
Bridges and Roadway Improvement Bonds — Fifteen Million One Hundred Fifty-Five Thousand
Dollars — Finance Department (O 130-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100

139

The City Record

56

February 2, 2011

Cemeteries Improvement Bonds — Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars — Finance Department
(O 128-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parks and Recreation Facilities Improvement Bonds — Two Million Ninety-Five Thousand
Dollars — Finance Department (O 129-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Facilities Improvement Bonds — Fourteen Million Two Hundred Thirty Thousand Dollars —
Finance Department (O 136-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping — East 151 St., West 61St.,
West 64th St., West 90th St. — relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 88
. . . . . . . . . . . 94
. . . . . . . . . . 108
. . . . . . . . . . 107

Fire Division
Assistance to Firefighters Grant — Grants — Safety Department — U.S. Department of Homeland
Security (O 15-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
U.S. Department of Homeland Security — Grants — Fire Prevention and Safety Grant Program
(O 9-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127

Grants
Assistance to Firefighters Grant — Safety Department — U.S. Department of Homeland Security
(O 15-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga County OVI Task Force Program, 2011 — University Hospitals (O 1631-10) . . . . . . . . . . .
U.S. Department of Homeland Security — Fire Prevention and Safety Grant Program (O 9-11) . . .
Urban Area Security Initiative Program; 2010 — State of Ohio Emergency Management Agency
(O 134-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 108

House Bill
Opposing HB No. 3 — repeal estate tax for the estates of individuals dying on or after
January 1, 2011 (R 103-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
Oppose House Bill 45 (Gun Control) (R 148-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127

Land Reutilization Program
St. Clair Avenue — PPN 104-10-055 — Ohio Technical College (Ward 08) (O 133-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108

Lease
Exercise first option to renew Contract No. 69948 — AirNet Systems, Inc. — leased space
for flight planning & layover rest area for flight crews (O 7-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136

Liquor Permits
Carnegie Ave., 10660 — new application (Ward 09) (F 156-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dolloff Rd., 5351- 53 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1124-10 (Ward
05) (R 96-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 93rd St., 3661 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1093-10 (Ward 02) (R 99-11) . . .
Fall St., 1628-38 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1080-10 — (Ward 03) (R 93-11) . . .
Lakeshore Blvd., 15550 — stock application (Ward 11) (F 158-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., 14731 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1071-10 — (Ward 01) (R 98-11) .
Prospect Ave., 1222 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 03) (R 146-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave., 14606 — new application (Ward 18)(F 161-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 10813 — transfer of location application (Ward 09) (F 155-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 5816 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership & Liquor Agency Contract —
repeal Res. 1642-10 & 1643-10 (Ward 07) (R 147-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Turney Rd., 4595 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1103-10 — (Ward 02) (R 100-11)
Waterloo Rd., 15222 — additional class application (Ward 11) (F 157-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Rd., 15617 — objection to issuance (Ward 11) (R 97-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St., 4677 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 18) (F 162-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25 St., 1616 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1087-10 — (Ward 03) (R 94-11) . .
West 25th St., 3022 — stock application (Ward 14) (F 160-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 3259 — additional class application (Ward 14) (F 159-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave., 6206 — objection to transfer of Liquor License — (Ward 05) (R 95-11) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

131
132
131
. 87
132
126
. 87
. 87

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

126
132
. 87
131
. 87
131
. 87
. 87
131

Mayor’s Office
Utilities Department — Management Strategies — professional services (O 138-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124

Office of Equal Opportunity
Compliance Report — December 2010 — Equal Opportunity Office (F 174-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87

140

February 2, 2011

The City Record

57

Peddlers
Piperis, llias — peddling — (Ward 14) (O 141-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125

Permits
Piperis, llias — peddling — (Ward 14) (O 141-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Walk for Hunger, 23rd Annual — May 14th — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland (Ward 03)
(O 142-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125

Port Control Department
Amend Contracts 31262, 38171, 31263 46540 — with various airlines to swap space (O 1601-10) .
Exercise first option to renew Contract No. 69128 with Standard Signs — Airfield Signage
(O 1604-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise first option to renew Contract No. 69948 — AirNet Systems, Inc. — leased space
for flight planning & layover rest area for flight crews (O 7-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 69064 with Kone, Inc. — Kone elevators, escalators
and moving walkways (O 1603-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Extend Contract No. 68843 — Landrum and Brown, Incorporated (F 153-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87

Professional Services
Clerk of Council — agreement — Erin McIntyre (O 139-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — Management Strategies (O 138-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — PMJ settlement system (O 1614-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — software and services for SCADA — CPP (O 1628-10).

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

125
124
134
135

Public Notice
Deputy Clerk of Council — Request for Proposal Publication — City Council website
(F 151-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87

Public Works
Amend Sect(s) 131.07 & 131.08 — Relating to Special Events (O 135-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123

Recognition Resolutions
Faith Perspectives on Immigration: an Interfaith Seminar (R 172-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Vietnamese Community In Greater Cleveland, Inc. — (Vietnamese Lunar New Year) (R 171-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88

Resolutions of Support
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
Oppose House Bill 45 (Gun Control) (R 148-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127

Resolutions- Miscellaneous
Governor Kasich reconsider diversity stance (R 104-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mental Health Funding (R 102-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State Senator Tom Sawyer — receipt of Resolution No. 1576-10 (support of House Bill
75) (F 152-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oppose House Bill 45 (Gun Control) (R 148-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Opposing HB No. 3 — repeal estate tax for the estates of individuals dying on or after
January 1, 2011 (R 103-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133

Safety Department
Assistance to Firefighters Grant — Grants — U.S. Department of Homeland Security (O 15-11) . . .
Cuyahoga County OVI Task Force Program, 2011 — Grants — University Hospitals (O 1631-10) . .
U.S. Department of Homeland Security — Grants — Fire Prevention and Safety Grant Program
(O 9-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Area Security Initiative Program; 2010 — Grant — State of Ohio Emergency Management
Agency (O 134-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 108

Sewers
Subsidiary — Contract No. 69353 — Petty Group — Henninger Avenue sewer replacement
(Ward 13) (O 1633-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135

141

The City Record

58

February 2, 2011

Sidewalks
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping — East 151 St., West 61St.,
West 64th St., West 90th St. — relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107

State of Ohio
Consent agreement E. 93 Street bridge — Capital Projects (O 137-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
Urban Area Security Initiative Program; 2010 — Grant — State of Ohio Emergency Management
Agency (O 134-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108

Street Vacation
East 3rd St., (99 feet wide) & Summit Ave. (80 feet wide) — intention to vacate portion —
City Planning Commission — Capital Projects (Ward 03) (O 90-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127

Utilities Department
Authorizes CPP customer to participate in PMJ (R 144-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
Contract — EnerNOC Inc. (O 143-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
Management Strategies — professional services (O 138-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
Professional service — PMJ settlement system (O 1614-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
Professional service — software and services for SCADA — CPP (O 1628-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135
Subsidiary — Contract No. 69353 — Petty Group — Henninger Avenue sewer replacement
(Ward 13) (O 1633-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135

Walk- A- Thons
Walk for Hunger, 23rd Annual — permit — May 14th — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
(Ward 03) (O 142-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125

Ward 01
Miles Ave., 14731 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1071-10 — liquor permit
(R 98-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping — East 151 St., West 61St.,
West 64th St., West 90th St. — relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
Solomon, Linda Byrd — condolence (R 168-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88

Ward 02
East 93rd St., 3661 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1093-10 — liquor permit
(R 99-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
Governor Kasich reconsider diversity stance (R 104-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping — East 151 St., West 61St.,
West 64th St., West 90th St. — relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
Turney Rd., 4595 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1103-10 — liquor permit
(R 100-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132

Ward 03
East 3rd St., (99 feet wide) & Summit Ave. (80 feet wide) — intention to vacate portion —
City Planning Commission — Capital Projects (O 90-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
Fall St., 1628-38 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1080-10 — liquor permit
(R 93-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
Prospect Ave., 1222 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 146-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
St. Augustine Church & Hunger Center — appreciation (R 173-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Walk for Hunger, 23rd Annual — permit — May 14th — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
(O 142-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
West 25 St., 1616 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1087-10 — liquor permit
(R 94-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131

Ward 04
Grayer, Allean (Varner) — condolence (R 166-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88

142

February 2, 2011

The City Record

59

Ward 05
Dolloff Rd., 5351- 53 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1124-10 — liquor permit
(R 96-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Governor Kasich reconsider diversity stance (R 104-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Matthews, Julia Mae — condolence (R 165-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave., 6206 — objection to transfer of Liquor License — liquor permit (R 95-11) . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

131
133
. 88
126
131

Ward 06
Faith Perspectives on Immigration: an Interfaith Seminar — recognition (R 172-11) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Health Promotion and Specialization Program — agreement — Senior Outreach Services,
Inc. (Ward 06 NCF) (O 149-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Landscaping and Snow Removal Program — agreement — Buckeye Area Development
Corp. (Ward 06 NCF) (O 150-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 126

Ward 07
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
Superior Ave., 5816 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership & Liquor Agency Contract —
repeal Res. 1642-10 & 1643-10 — liquor permit (R 147-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126

Ward 08
Blandon, Frazier Rufus — condolence (R 167-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Doan Classroom Apartments — East 105th St., 1350 — Famicos Foundation — Public Notification
Letter (F 154-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — contract — AlSher Titania, LLC — partially finance the purchase
of machinery and equipment — 842 East 79th St. (O 131-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Governor Kasich reconsider diversity stance (R 104-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Opposing HB No. 3 — repeal estate tax for the estates of individuals dying on or after
January 1, 2011 (R 103-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue — PPN 104-10-055 — Land Reutilization Program — Ohio Technical College
(O 133-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 108

Ward 09
Carnegie Ave., 10660 — new application — liquor permit (F 156-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Loyd, Eva Mae — condolence (R 169-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mental Health Funding (R 102-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 10813 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 155-11).

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. 87
. 88
132
. 87

Ward 10
Opposing HB No. 3 — repeal estate tax for the estates of individuals dying on or after
January 1, 2011 (R 103-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
Oppose House Bill 45 (Gun Control) (R 148-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127

Ward 11
Fisher, Stanley M. — condolence (R 163-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Blvd., 15550 — stock application — liquor permit (F 158-11) . . . . . . . . . . .
Oppose House Bill 45 (Gun Control) (R 148-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping — East 151 St., West
West 64th St., West 90th St. — relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Rd., 15222 — additional class application — liquor permit (F 157-11) . . . .
Waterloo Rd., 15617 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 97-11) . . . . . . . . . . .

.....
.....
.....
61St.,
.....
.....
.....

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131

Ward 12
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126

Ward 13
Subsidiary — Contract No. 69353 — Petty Group — Henninger Avenue sewer replacement
(O 1633-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126

143

The City Record

60

February 2, 2011

Ward 14
Governor Kasich reconsider diversity stance (R 104-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mental Health Funding (R 102-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . . . . .
Opposing HB No. 3 — repeal estate tax for the estates of individuals dying on or after
January 1, 2011 (R 103-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Piperis, llias — peddling — (Ward 14) (O 141-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 3022 — stock application — liquor permit (F 160-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 3259 — additional class application — liquor permit (F 159-11) . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

133
125
. 87
. 87

Ward 15
Aron, Gloria — condolence (R 170-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fisher, Stanley M. — condolence (R 163-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping — East 151 St., West 61St.,
West 64th St., West 90th St. — relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vietnamese Community In Greater Cleveland, Inc. — (Vietnamese Lunar New Year) —
recognition (R 171-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88

Ward 16
Burns, Jr., Dargan J — condolence (R 164-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . .
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, castings and landscaping — East 151 St., West
West 64th St., West 90th St. — relay and repair (O 132-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
61St.,
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107

Ward 17
Governor Kasich reconsider diversity stance (R 104-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133

Ward 18
Oppose closing E. 55th Street State Driver License testing station (R 145-11) . . . . . . .
Oppose House Bill 45 (Gun Control) (R 148-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave., 14606 — new application — liquor permit (F 161-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 130th St., 4677 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 162-11)

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

126
127
. 87
. 87

Water Division
Utilities Department — contract — EnerNOC Inc. (O 143-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122

144

