The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

October the Twenty-Sixth, Two Thousand and Eleven

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
18
18
20
20
22
22
22
22
23
26
26

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
Name Residence
1 Terrell H. Pruitt 3877 East 189th Street 44122
2 Zachary Reed 3734 East 149th Street 44120
3 Joe Cimperman P.O. Box 91688 44101
4 Kenneth L. Johnson 2948 Hampton Road 44120
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland 2369 East 36th Street 44105
6 Mamie J. Mitchell 12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712 44120
7 TJ Dow 7715 Decker Avenue 44103
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson 9024 Parkgate Avenue 44108
9 Kevin Conwell 10647 Ashbury Avenue 44106
10 Eugene R. Miller 13615 Kelso Avenue 44110
11 Michael D. Polensek 17855 Brian Avenue 44119
12 Anthony Brancatelli 6924 Ottawa Road 44105
13 Kevin J. Kelley 5904 Parkridge Avenue 44144
14 Brian J. Cummins 3104 Mapledale Avenue 44109
15 Matthew Zone 1228 West 69th Street 44102
16 Jay Westbrook 1278 West 103rd Street 44102
17 Dona Brady 1272 West Boulevard 44102
18 Martin J. Sweeney 3632 West 133rd Street 44111
19 Martin J. Keane 15907 Colletta Lane 44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Interim Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Lonya Moss Walker, Interim Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Bernardo Garcia, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Interim Director, Mural Building, 75
Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – George Baker, Commissioner
Environment – Pamela Cross, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development –Chris Garland, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry, President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President
Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Interim Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry; Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Interim Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Chairman; Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney;
Councilman Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Interim Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lynn McLaughlin-Murray – Courtroom 12A
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan – Courtroom 13A
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2011

Vol. 98

No. 5107

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2011
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Committee:
Cimperman,
Services
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee: Pruitt, Chair; Miller, Vice
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K.
Johnson, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, October 24, 2011
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Conwell, Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson,
K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller,
Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt, Reed,
Sweeney, Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff, Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Government Affairs, Chris Warren,
Chief
of
Regional
Development,
Monyka S. Price, Chief of Education,
Maureen Harper, Chief of Communications, Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary, and Interim Law Director
Langhenry, Directors Dumas, Withers, Smith, Wasik, Butler, Cox,
Rush, Southerington, Nichols, Griffin, Fumich, Mundy Workman, and
Teresa
Stevenson
of
Legislative
Affairs.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Cheryl Lindsey, Chaplin of the
Cleveland Chapter of Delta Sigma
Theta Sorority located in Ward 8.
Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Keane, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Cleveland.

FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1532-11.
Re: #8202311 — D5, D6 Transfer
Ownership
Application,
627
of
Prospect, LLC, d.b.a., Caddyshack
Lounge
and
Patio,
668
Euclid
Unit
8P.
(Ward
3).
Avenue,
Received.
File No. 1533-11.
Re: #1128498 — D5, D6 Transfer
of Ownership Application, Burson
Management,
d.b.a.
Restaurant
Huron Point Tavern, 1st floor and
basement and patio, 828 Huron
Road. (Ward 3). Received.
File No. 1534-11.
Re: #5378773 — D5, D6 Transfer
of Ownership and Location Application, MGFFG LLC, d.b.a., Enigma,
1313 West 6th Street. (Ward 3).
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. 1536-11—Angeline “Angie”
Ferchill.
Res. No. 1537-11—Horace Jones, Jr.
Res.
No.
1538-11—Mrs.
Helen
Miller.
Res.
No.
1539-11—Theodore
Edward Huey, Sr.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. 1540-11—Donn R. Nottage.
Res. No. 1541-11—Social Action
Committee of Delta Sigma Theta
Sorority, Inc.
Res. No. 1542-11—The Call & Post
— 95th Anniversary.
Res. No. 1543-11—Thomas F. Zenty
III.
Res. No. 1544-11—Mayor Frank G,
Jackson.
Res. No. 1545-11—Bellaire Puritas
Development Corporation.
Res. No. 1546-11—AMLA Lodge No.
6, Slovenski Dom.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. 1547-11—National Hospice/Palliative Care Month.
Res.
No.
1548-11—32nd
degree
Masons of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, Valley of Cleveland.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED

COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 1531-11.
From: Department of Economic
Development. Request for Proposal
Publication — qualified developer to
complete a plan for the redevelopment of the Variety Theatre Building located at 10313 Lorain Avenue.
(Ward 17). Received.

1723

Ord. No. 1515-11.
By Council Members Keane and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 66946 with the Cleveland
National Airshow, Inc. to conduct an
air show and related events.

4
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 130-07, passed May 14,
2007, the Director of Port Control
entered into Contract No. 66946 with
the Cleveland National Airshow, Inc.
for the use of certain portions of the
airfield and facilities at Cleveland
Burke Lakefront Airport to conduct
an air show and related events for a
period of five years, with five oneyear options to renew, all of which
require additional legislative authority to exercise; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 130-07
requires further legislation before
exercising any option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the first option to renew Contract No. 66946 for an additional
year with Cleveland National Airshow, Inc. for the use of certain portions of the airfield and facilities at
Cleveland Burke Lakefront Airport
to conduct an air show and related
events. This ordinance constitutes
the additional legislative authority
required by Ordinance No. 130-07 to
exercise this option.
Section 2. That the remaining four
one-year options to renew on Contract
No. 66946 may be exercised by the
Director of Port Control without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1516-11.
By Council Members Cimperman,
K. Johnson, Mitchell and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 131.02, 131.06, 131.07, 131.15,
and 131.19, as enacted and amended
by various ordinances; and to repeal
Section 131.16, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1330-A-10, relating to the
Manager of Special Events and the
management of Public Auditorium.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, upon the concurrence of the Board of Control, as
required by Sections 77 and 79 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland,
existing Section 131.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
1330-A-10, passed December 6, 2010,
is amended to read as follows.
to read as follows:
Section 131.02 Duties of the Director
of Public Works
The Director of Public Works
either directly or through the appropriate divisions established in the
Department of Public Works, shall

The City Record
manage and supervise all public
improvements, works and undertakings of the City except as otherwise
provided by the Charter and ordinances of the City. He shall have
charge of the planning, construction,
improvement, repair and maintenance of streets, boulevards, sidewalks, alleys, lanes and other public
highways; of the planning, construction, improvement, repair and maintenance and the operation of bridges
and viaducts; of drains, ditches, culverts; the cleaning and sprinkling of
streets, boulevards and public places;
the collection and disposal of waste;
the preservation of tools, equipment
and other property belonging to the
City and pertaining to the Department of Public Works; charge and
management of City Hall buildings;
charge and management of The Public Hall, the Music Hall, the Little
Theater, the main arena, Mall Units 1
and 2 (Malls B and C), and all meeting rooms which shall comprise and
be known as “The Public Auditorium
Building,” and Cleveland Browns Stadium; all City parks, recreation facilities and markets; all City off-street
parking facilities not under the jurisdiction of another department; all
other real estate belonging to the City
and not under the jurisdiction of
another department; the installation
and maintenance of parking meters
in parking meter zones established
by the Commissioner of Traffic Engineering; and the issuance of parking
infraction tickets and the impoundment of vehicles to the extent that the
Codified
Ordinances
specifically
authorize employees of the Division
of Parking Facilities to perform said
tasks.
The Director of Public Works and
his designees, which shall include
only supervisory or higher ranking
officials in the Department of Public
Works, when commissioned by the
Director of Public Safety as special
police, may enforce minor misdemeanor offenses related to solid
waste collection and disposal through
the issuance of citations in accordance with Rule 4.1 of the Rules of
Criminal Procedure. He shall further
perform all other duties pertaining to
the Department which may be
required of him by ordinance or by the
Mayor.
Section 2. That, upon the concurrence of the Board of Control, as
required by Sections 77 and 79 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland,
existing Section 131.02 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as enacted by Ordinance No. 1330-A-10,
passed December 6, 2010, is repealed.
Section 3. That the following existing Sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 131.06 as enacted by Ordinance No. 1330-A-10, passed December
6, 2010,
Section 131.07, as amended by Ordinance No. 135-11, passed January 31,
2011, and
Sections 131.15 and 131.19, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1330-A-10, passed
December 6, 2010,
are amended to read as follows:
Section 131.06 Duties of the Manager of Special Events and Marketing
The Manager of Special Events and
Marketing shall:
(a) make recommendations to the
Director regarding the issuance and
conditions of issuance for all permits
governing special events occurring
within the corporate boundaries of
the city;
(b) prior to and during every spe-

1724

October 26, 2011
cial event, coordinate the permitting
process of all city departments providing services to the special event;
(c) provide technical assistance
and information to special event
applicants;
(d) recommend to the Director
appropriate risk management measures to protect the city during each
special event;
(e) administer all special event concession agreements and all special
event permits under this chapter
excepting only those concession
agreements which apply to property
under the control of the Directors of
Port Control and Public Utilities;
(f) have the authority to determine
and require events promoters to provide essential services, including but
not limited to, adequate on-site safety
and traffic control, fire protection,
first-aid services, sanitation and
clean up; and
(g) preside over such special
events steering committees of City
personnel from more than one City
department as may be appointed by
the directors of the affected city
departments and record all actions
taken by the committees.
Section 131.07 Special Event Permits
For purposes of this Chapter, “special event” means a preplanned event
or series of events of less than a
week’s duration, sponsored by a public or private person or entity, which
is: (1) located wholly or partially on
property which is owned or maintained by the City of Cleveland; or (2)
located on any other property and
requires for its successful execution,
the provision and coordination of
municipal services to a degree significantly over and above that which the
City of Cleveland routinely provides
under ordinary everyday circumstances.
City buildings, parks and all other
real estate under control of the Director which have been constructed or
maintained for the benefit of the public shall be for the use of the public in
general under the Charter and ordinances of the City of Cleveland. To
that end, no person or entity shall be
given any special or exclusive privilege to use any public property under
the control of the Director without
first obtaining a permit under this
section. Additionally, the Director
shall ensure that proper coordination
occurs among necessary city departments to facilitate the use of city
streets for special event activities
including parades, marathons, foot
races/bike-a-thons, and all other
events requiring closure of a right-ofway.
All closures of city streets in conjunction with a special event shall be
approved by the Police Traffic Commissioner, Commissioner of Streets,
and Manager of Special Events, and
Marketing.
(a) The Director may establish
rules and regulations for the use of
public property under his control.
Such rules and regulations shall
become effective ten days after publication in the City Record and shall be
enforced as ordinances of the City.
The Director of Public Works shall
have the authority to make, amend,
alter or rescind rules and regulations
governing use of the facilities of the
Public Auditorium Building and
Cleveland Browns Stadium not in conflict with the ordinances or laws regulating such conduct. The Director
may require in any rental agreement
that the event be required to pay for

October 26, 2011
or provide security personnel within
and without the rental premises.
(b) The Director may place reasonable time restrictions on the issuance
of special event permits, including
without limitation a prior notice
requirement, first-come, first-served
scheduling, limitations on frequency
of use, and limitation of permits to
normal operating hours for City property. Use of the City Hall Rotunda for
events other than City-sponsored
events, shall be limited to after normal business hours and weekends.
The Director’s prior notice requirement may not exceed five days for
special event permits not subject to
the requirements of Section 131.08.
(c) The Director may place reasonable place restrictions on the issuance
of special event permits, which
restrictions may consider the historic
use of the property, recreational use
policies adopted in the director’s rules
and regulations, the size of the property and the degree to which the special event would interfere with the
historic use and adopted recreational
use policies for the property.
(d) The Director may deny or
revoke a special event permit whenever he finds:
(1) the applicant person or entity
has previously violated the provisions of a special event permit or has
submitted materially false or incomplete information on any special
event permit application; or
(2) the special event would unreasonably interfere with the movement
of or service capability of police vehicles, firefighting equipment or ambulance service; or
(3) the special event would unreasonably interfere with the historic
recreational use and the adopted
recreational use policies for a neighborhood park; or
(4) the special event would unreasonably interfere with another special event for which a permit has been
issued; or
(5) the special event would unreasonably interfere with the City activities that occur on or at the property.
The Director may charge a permit
application fee, subject to approval of
Board of Control, in an amount not to
exceed the Director’s cost in administering such application.
Section 131.15 Concession Agreements for Rental of the Public Auditorium Building
(a) The Director of Public Works
shall have the authority to enter into
contracts to rent all or any portion of
the Public Auditorium Building or
Cleveland Browns Stadium. Every
contract for renting all or any portion
of the Public Auditorium Building
shall be reduced to writing and shall
contain all the terms and conditions
of the agreement including without
limitation, the exact amount and location of space to be granted, the
amount of the rental therefor, and a
separate charge or rate for any labor,
materials, or equipment which is to be
supplied by the City to the grantee.
(b) Every grant or concession
agreement for the use of the Public
Auditorium Building shall be reduced
to writing and shall be executed by
the parties thereto at least thirty (30)
days prior to the scheduled opening
date of the event or show, except in
emergencies; the Director of Public
Works shall review and approve each
concession agreement.

The City Record
(c) No grant or concession agreement for the use of the Public Auditorium Building shall be modified or
changed in any manner, after it is
signed by the parties, except if such
modification or change is in writing
and signed by the parties and is in all
respects clear, complete and in conformity with all existing laws of the
City of Cleveland including the rules
and regulations of the Director of
Public Works and applicable resolutions of the Board of Control.
(d) Every such grant or concession
agreement for the use of the Public
Auditorium Building shall also be
approved in writing by the Director of
Law.
(e) All deposits required of any person to secure the use of the Public
Auditorium Building shall be nonreturnable.
(f) Every person, firm, company or
organization using or renting space
at the Public Auditorium Building
shall be required to pay for such use
at the rates established by the Board
of Control.
(g) The Director of Public Works
may offer to grantees the acceptance
of Mastercard and Visa and other
credit cards for ticket purchases.
The Director of Finance may contract for credit card services with any
financial institution designated as a
depository for active funds of the City
of Cleveland. The Director of Finance
is authorized to pay all credit card
fees and enter into a contract for credit card services and purchase or lease
of equipment. The Director of Public
Works shall charge any grantee
requesting credit card services all
costs of such services including but
not limited to bank handling fees to
recover for the City the costs of the
contracts executed by the Director of
Finance.
The Director of Public Works is
authorized to impose on ticket purchases a $1.50 service charge on all
telephone and mail order charge purchases to cover Public Auditorium
Building costs.
Section 131.19 Withdrawal of Funds
by the Director of Public Works
All money deposited in a special
trust fund account shall be withdrawn only on a warrant executed
and approved by the Director of Public Works, under which warrant a
check may be drawn on the depository in which the special trust fund
account is placed, in the manner prescribed by ordinance for the withdrawal of city funds from City depositories.
Section 4. That the following existing Sections of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 131.06 as enacted by Ordinance No. 1330-A-10, passed December
6, 2010,
Section 131.07, as amended by Ordinance No. 135-11, passed January 31,
2011, and
Sections 131.15, 131.16, and 131.19, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1330-A-10,
passed December 6, 2010,
are repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1725

5
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1517-11.
By Council Members Brancatelli
Sweeney
(by
departmental
and
request).
An emergency ordinance approving
the Tax Incentive Review Council’s
Year 2010 recommendations.
Whereas, under Section 5709.83 of
the Revised Code, if a municipal corporation grants an exemption from
taxation, they shall create a Tax
Incentive Review Council (“TIRC”);
and
Whereas, one of the functions of the
TIRC is to annually review all agreements granting exemptions from
property taxation and to make recommendations to either continue, modify, or cancel their agreements based
on various factors, including fluctuations in the business cycle unique to
the owner’s business; and
Whereas, in compliance with Section 5709.83 of the Revised Code, the
City of Cleveland has created a TIRC
and the TIRC has made written recommendations on exemptions to be
approved by the legislative authority;
and
Whereas, under division (D) of Section 5709.83 of the Revised Code, once
a legislative authority receives written recommendations from a tax
incentive review council, that legislative authority has sixty days after
receiving the recommendations, to
hold a meeting and vote to accept,
reject, or modify, all or any portion of
the recommendations; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the TIRC’s Year
2010
recommendations
contained
File No. 1517-11-A are approved.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1518-11.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the of Director Human Resources
to employ one or more professional
consultants for services necessary to
provide group medical, and dental
insurance coverage, vision and life
insurance coverage, the medical reimbursement accounts, dependent care
accounts, and premium pass-through
benefits under Internal Revenue Code
Section 125 for City of Cleveland
employees, for a period up to one year,
with a one-year option to renew, exercisable by the Director of Human
Resources.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,

6
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Human Resources is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts in
order to provide professional consultants for services necessary to
provide group medical, and dental
insurance coverage, vision and life
insurance
coverage,
the
medical
reimbursement accounts, dependent
care accounts, and premium passthrough
benefits
under
Internal
Revenue Code Section 125 for City
of Cleveland employees, for a period up to one year, with a one-year
option to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Human Resources.
The selection of the carriers shall
be made by the Board of Control on
the nomination of the Director of
Human Resources from a list of qualified carriers as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Human Resources for
the purpose of compiling a list. The
cost to be paid for the contracts shall
be fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Human
Resources, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the contracts shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain any conditions and
provisions that the Director deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall be
paid from funds appropriated in budget year 2012 for this purpose, RQN
0402, RL 2011-51.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Human
Resources, Finance, Law; Committees
on Employment, Affirmative Action
and Training, Finance.
Ord. No. 1519-11.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Westbrook and Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3103.09 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1112-A-07,
passed June 2, 2008 and Section 367.08,
as amended by Ordinance No. 54-94,
passed June 6, 1994, relating to cost
recovery from all owners jointly from
the time of notice of condemnation to
demolition for demolition costs.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Building and Housing Department
has demolished 5,152 condemned
buildings between 2006 and 2010; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Building and Housing Department
has only been able to recover a fraction of its demolition costs despite
efforts to collect from owners of such
buildings; and
Whereas, many condemned buildings are transferred between multiple
owners during the time from when
the City condemns the building to
when the building is demolished; and
Whereas, many property owners
transfer properties with condemned
structures in order to avoid liability
and without ensuring that the purchaser will abate the nuisance; and

The City Record
Whereas, both state and local laws
require sellers or property to provide
written notice to purchasers of building and housing code violations and
require purchasers to obtain notice of
building and housing code violations;
and
Whereas, under Section 5301.253 of
the Revised Code, “The owner of any
property who has received written
notice that the property is in violation
of any building or housing code shall
give the purchaser or grantee of the
property written notice or the code
violations prior to entering into an
agreement for the transfer of title to
the property, or if the owner does not
enter into a written agreement for the
transfer, prior to filing for record of a
deed to the property.”; and
Whereas, under Section 5301.253 of
the Revised Code, “Any notice or
order of a court or of a housing or
building authority of the state or a
political subdivision that relates to a
violation of the building or housing
code of the state or any political subdivision and the appears on the public
records of the issuing authority is
notice to all subsequent purchasers,
transferees, or any other persons who
acquire any interest in the real property in which the violation exists and
may be enforced against their interest in the real property without further notice or order to them.”; and
Whereas, Section 367.12 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, requires a seller of any structure
of five or more units to provide a purchaser and place in escrow prior to
sale a current Certificate of Occupancy or Statement of Authorized Use
from the Department of Building and
Housing along with any outstanding
notice of violation from the City or
outstanding notice of the City’s intention to demolish or effectively board;
and
Whereas, Section 367.12 requires a
seller of a one, two, three or four unit
structure to provide the purchaser
with a Certificate of Disclosure form
prescribed by the Director of Building
and Housing addressing the condition of the property, and if the purchaser does not receive the Certificate of Disclosure prior to sale, the
purchaser may rescind the purchase
contract prior to sale; and
Whereas, division (e)(4)A. of Section 3103.09 forbids any seller from
selling any interest in a structure
“without furnishing the buyer, prior
to sale a copy of any outstanding
notice or order from the City, including any notice of violation or any outstanding notice to make corrections
to the minimum standards of the Codified Ordinances…, applicable City
rules and regulations, the Revised
Code, including the Ohio Building
Code, or any outstanding notice to
demolish and remove.” It also forbids
any buyer or grantee from obtaining
any interest in a structure “without
obtaining from the seller, prior to
sale, the documents described above”;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3103.09 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 1112-A-07, passed June 2,
2008 and Section 367.08, as amended
by Ordinance No. 54-94, passed June

1726

October 26, 2011
6, 1994 are amended, respectively, as
follows:
Section 3103.09 Unsafe Structures
and Exterior Property Nuisances; Violations and Remedial Notices; Cost
Recovery
(a) Legislative Findings.
Council of the City of Cleveland
finds that:
(1) Structures that are vacant and
open to entry at doors, windows or
other points accessible to the general
public:
A. Attract children to enter;
B. Become harborage for vermin;
C. Serve as temporary abode for
derelicts, vagrants and criminals; and
D. Are likely to be damaged by vandals or set ablaze by arsonists.
(2) Unkept grounds surrounding
vacant, open structures invite the
dumping of garbage and rubbish;
(3) Thousands of structures in this
City are made of wood-frame construction that is more combustible
than other building types;
(4) Thousands of structures in this
City are situated on narrow lots and
in close proximity to one another,
increasing the risk of conflagration
and spread of insect and rodent infestation;
(5) Population loss and economic
decline experienced by the City in
recent years has caused the incidence
of vacant, open structures, high
grass, weeds, junk, debris, and junk
motor vehicles to increase significantly;
(6) Vacant, open structures often
become dilapidated because they are
not repaired by the owners or persons
in control of the structures;
(7) Structures that are vacant and
open to entry, high grass, weeds,
junk, debris, and junk motor vehicles
depress the market value of surrounding properties;
(8) Vacant and unsafe structures in
which utility services have not been
shut-off create a serious risk of explosion, accidental fire and flood.
(9) The existence of certain hazardous conditions may require a
structure to be vacated; these conditions include but are not limited to:
A. Danger of structural collapse;
B. Inadequate heat or use of dangerous heating mechanism;
C. Danger of fire; and
D. Lack of plumbing in safe working order.
(10) Structures that remain boarded for an extended period of time contribute to blight, cause a decrease in
neighboring property values, create
targets for arson, and lead to the cancellation of homeowners’ insurance
for neighboring property owners.
(11) The following conditions provide harborage and breeding grounds
for pests or otherwise create humanhealth problems:
A. Grass over 8 inches in height.
B. Noxious weeds including Russian, Canadian, or common thistle;
wild lettuce; wild mustard; wild parsley; ragweed; milk weed; iron weed;
wild plants that can cause skin reaction upon contact or produce or aggravate hay fever, asthma, allergic respiratory reaction, or similar conditions;
and all other noxious weeds.
C. Refuse, including but not limited
to, trash, junk, garbage and food
waste, offal, animal wastes, tires, and
all other waste materials.
D. Stagnant surface water.
(12) As used in this Chapter “junk”
motor vehicle means a motor vehicle

October 26, 2011
that meets all of the following criteria:
A. Three model years’ old or older;
B. Apparently inoperable; and
C. Extensively damaged, including,
but not limited to, any of the following: missing wheels, tires, engine,
motor,
or
transmission.
(R.C.
§505.173)
(b) Declaration of Nuisance.
(1) All buildings or structures that
are injurious to or a menace to the
public health, safety or welfare, or
are structurally unsafe, unsanitary or
not provided with adequate safe
egress, or constitute a fire hazard, or
are vacant and open to public entry,
or are otherwise dangerous to human
life or injurious to the public, or in
relation to existing use constitute a
hazard to the public health, safety or
welfare by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence or abandonment, are, severally,
for the purposes of this Building
Code, declared to be “unsafe structures.” All unsafe structures or conditions are declared to be public nuisances. The public nuisance shall be
abated by correction of the violations
to the minimum standards of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, applicable City rules and regulations, the Revised Code, and Ohio
Administrative Code, including the
Ohio Building Code, or by demolition.
(2) The condition described under
division (a) (8) of this section is
declared to be a nuisance because of
the risk of harm from explosion, accidental fire or flooding and shall be
abated by shut-off of the services.
(3) The conditions listed in division
(a) (11) of this section are declared to
be nuisances that shall be removed,
destroyed, or abated from any property on which they are found.
(4) Junk motor vehicles as defined
in division (a) (12) of this section are
declared to be nuisances that shall be
removed or abated from any property
on which they are found. Junk motor
vehicles are declared to be a nuisance
because:
A. They harbor rodents, vermin,
and other pests;
B. They contain toxic substances
and flammable liquids and fumes;
C. They attract children to enter;
D. They serve as temporary abode
for derelicts, vagrants and criminals;
E. They diminish neighboring property values; and
F. They are likely to be damaged by
vandals or set ablaze by arsonists.
(c) Effective Boarding Pending
Rehabilitation.
(1) Permits. Pending the correction
of the violations to the minimum standards of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, applicable City
rules and regulations, the Revised
Code, and the Ohio Administrative
Code, including the Ohio Building
Code, the owner of a structure may
secure the structure through effective
boarding. In order to effectively
board the structure, the owner of the
structure shall apply, within 3 days of
receiving a notice of violation, to the
Department of Building and Housing
for a permit to board. The Department
of Building and Housing shall review
the condition of the structure, determine if it can be effectively boarded,
and grant or deny the owner’s permit
to board, setting forth special requirements, if any, necessary for compliance with minimum standards for
effective boarding. The owner shall
effectively board the structure within

The City Record
3 days of the issuance of a boarding
permit, or within any other time limit
that the Director deems appropriate.
Structures that are boarded without
first obtaining a boarding permit or
structures that do not comply with the
boarding permit shall continue to be
considered public nuisances subject
to demolition. Within thirty (30) days
of the issuance of a permit to board,
the owner of the structure shall apply
for a rehabilitation permit under Section 3105.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. The
Director may grant an extension of
time for acquiring a rehabilitation
permit on the owner’s written request
and for good cause shown. Failure of
the owner to obtain a rehabilitation
permit after effective boarding will
result in the structure being deemed a
public nuisance, and scheduled for
demolition.
(2) Materials. The effective boarding of a structure shall include, but
not be limited to, doors, windows, or
other areas of the structure open to
ingress and egress and to weather elements at any and all levels of the
structure. The openings shall be
secured by plywood, not less than 1/2
thick, or other material of equal
strength, cut and fit into the openings. Openings in excess of fortyeight inches wide shall be framed
with 2" x 4" lumber and plywood, or
equivalent material fastened twentyfour inches on center onto frame. The
plywood or equivalent material shall
be fastened into the openings by
screw type nails or lag screws.
(3) Maintenance. Upon effectively
boarding the structure, the owner
shall monitor and maintain the structure and its surrounding premises in a
safe, sanitary and secured condition.
Any portion of the exterior structure
that is deemed to be potentially hazardous due to deteriorated conditions,
or to be structurally unsound, shall be
removed or treated in a manner so as
to eliminate the hazard. The exterior
premises shall be maintained free of
high weeds, debris, junk vehicles, and
conditions that may provide harborage for rodents. Failure of the owner
to properly maintain the building in
the above condition, will result in the
structure being deemed a public nuisance, and scheduled for demolition.
(4) Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation
of the structure shall begin within 30
days of receiving a rehabilitation permit under Section 3105.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976 unless the time period is extended with permission from the Director.
If rehabilitation of the effectively
boarded structure does not begin
within this time period, or if the rehabilitation permit is otherwise invalidated or revoked, then the Director
may declare that the nuisance has not
been abated and schedule the structure for demolition.
(d) Examination and Condemnation.
(1) The Director is authorized to
examine or cause to be examined
every building or other structure
reported to be unsafe or damaged or
injurious to or a menace to the public,
and shall make a written record of the
examination.
(2) The Director may designate as
a public nuisance those particular
structures or conditions found to be
unsafe under division (b) of this section.
(3) The Director may also declare
that a nuisance structure which, due

1727

7
to its advanced state of dilapidation,
substantial fire damage or structural
infirmity, is an immediate hazard to
human life or health, may only be
abated by immediate repair and rehabilitation to the minimum standards
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, applicable City rules
and regulations, the Revised Code,
and Ohio Administrative Code, including the Ohio Building Code, or by
demolition.
(4) Whenever the Director finds a
vacant structure open to entry at
doors, windows or other points accessible to the general public, he may
cause the structure to be secured at
those points of entry. The Director
shall be authorized at any time to
enter the premises to secure the structure in order to lessen the severity of
the public nuisance. In securing the
structure, the Director may call any
department, division or bureau of the
City for whatever assistance may be
necessary, or may, by private contract, secure such structure and may
notify Utilities to shut-off service to
the property under Section 3103.091.
This securing shall not be deemed to
constitute “effective boarding” under
division (b) of this section, and it
does not abate the nuisance condition
of an unsafe structure, as declared
under division (d) (2) of this section,
unless so declared in writing by the
Director. Later notice, issued under
division (e) (1) below, shall include
the fact that the Director has found it
necessary to take appropriate action
to secure the structure.
(e) Notice of Violation.
(1) Whenever the Director finds a
building, structure or a portion of
those to be unsafe and determines it
or the property on which it is located
to be a public nuisance as defined in
this Chapter, he shall forward by certified mail to the owner, agent or person in control of the building, structure or portion and to any mortgagee
of record a written notice of violation
stating the defects in the building or
structure. The notice of violation
shall require the owner within a stated time to abate the nuisance condition of the building or structure by
correction of the violations and
defects to the minimum standards of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, applicable City rules and
regulations, the Revised Code, and
Ohio Administrative Code, including
the Ohio Building Code, or by demolition and removal of the building,
structure, or a portion of those. The
notice also shall state that if the nuisance is not abated within the
required time that the Director may
take appropriate action to repair,
remove, or otherwise abate the public
nuisance and that the owner, agent or
person in control shall be responsible
for the costs. The handing of the violation notice to the owner, agent or
person in control of the building,
structure or a portion of those shall be
deemed actual notice and is legal and
valid service and no other form of service is necessary.
(2) If the person to whom the notice
and order is addressed is not found
after a reasonable and diligent
search, then the notice and order shall
be sent by certified mail to his tax
mailing address, if available, as indicated on the County tax duplicate,
and a copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises to which it relates. The mailing and posting shall be deemed legal
service of the notice.

8
(3) An owner, agent or person in
control of the structure or building, a
mortgagee of record, or a lien holder
of record who has received a notice of
violation or a notice to make corrections to the minimum standards of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, applicable City rules and
regulations, the Revised Code, and
Ohio Administrative Code, including
the Ohio Building Code, or to demolish and remove, as provided for in this
section, shall inform prospective purchasers,
vendees,
grantees,
assignees, lessees, or land contractees of the notice of violation or
the notice to make corrections, or to
demolish and remove. No person shall
transfer
to
a
vendee,
grantee,
assignee, lessee, land contractee or
any other transferee any Interest in a
building, structure or a portion of
those after receiving a notice of violation to make corrections, or to demolish and remove the same, without
first providing the transferee with a
copy of the notice.
(4) A. No person, agent, firm or corporation shall sell, by land contract or
otherwise, any interest in any structure or building without furnishing
the buyer, prior to the sale a copy of
any outstanding notice or order from
the City, including any notice of violation or any outstanding notice to
make corrections to the minimum
standards of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, applicable
City rules and regulations, the
Revised Code, including the Ohio
Building Code, or any outstanding
notice to demolish and remove.
No buyer or grantee, by land contract or otherwise, shall obtain any
interest in any structure or building
without obtaining from the seller,
prior to sale, the documents described
above.
B. No person, agent, firm or corporation acting in the capacity of an
escrow agent in any real estate transaction involving the sale of a structure or building situated in the City,
shall disburse any funds unless the
provisions of this division have been
met.
C. Any buyer or grantee, by land
contract or otherwise, of a structure
or building, shall begin at the date of
transfer to comply with any notice or
order obtained or to be obtained under
this division and, within ten days of
the date of transfer, shall notify the
Director, in writing, of the actions
that will be taken to comply. The
Director may then establish a reasonable time to comply.
(f) Vacating Buildings and Prohibiting Use. The Director may also
require in the notice issued under
division (e) (1) of this section that
the building, structure or a portion of
those be vacated, not be reoccupied, or
used until the specified repairs and
improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by the Director. The
Director may cause to be posted at
each entrance to the building or structure a notice as follows: “THIS
STRUCTURE IS IN A DANGEROUS
CONDITION AND HAS BEEN CONDEMNED AND ITS USE HAS BEEN
PROHIBITED BY THE DIRECTOR
OF BUILDING AND HOUSING.” The
notice shall remain posted until the
required corrections are made or
demolition is completed. No person
shall remove the notice without written permission of the Director, nor
shall any person use or enter the
building or structure except for the

The City Record
purpose of making the required corrections or demolishing or effectively
boarding the building or structure, or
securing the structure under division
(d) (4) of this section.
(g) Right to Appeal. The owner,
agent or person in control shall have
a right to appeal from the notice and
decision of the Director as provided in
this section and appear before the
Board of Building Standards and
Building Appeals at a specified time
and place to show cause why he
should not comply with the notice.
Any notice served by the Director
shall automatically become a final
order if a written notice of appeal
before the Board is not filed in the
office of the Board within the time set
forth in the notice from the Director.
In the absence of an appeal, all
actions taken shall constitute a valid
exercise of the police powers of the
City of Cleveland.
(h) Noncompliance with Notice.
(1) Director Authorized To Demolish, Remove, or Abate. In case the
owner, agent or person in control
fails, neglects or refuses to comply
with the notice to repair or rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove a public nuisance or unsafe building, structure or a portion of those, the Director
may take appropriate action to demolish and remove an unsafe structure or
to remove or abate any condition that
is defined as a nuisance under this
Chapter.
(2) Action by Director of Law. The
Director may advise the Director of
Law of the facts in the case, who may
institute appropriate action in the
court to cause correction of the violations and defects, or demolition and
removal, or effective boarding of the
building or structure pending rehabilitation.
(3) Rehabilitation Permits Not Bar
To Director’s Action To Abate. The
securing of rehabilitation permits for
the building or structure shall not in
and of itself bar the Director from
taking action to abate the nuisance.
(4) Effective Boarding by Director.
The Director may, with respect to any
condemned structure, also take appropriate action to effectively board the
structure, or to secure it under division (d) (4) of this section. The Director shall specifically state in writing
his findings with respect to the structure, and shall determine whether to
secure or to effectively board, based
on factors which may include the following: the distance of the structure
from neighboring structures, the type
of structure, the extent to which the
structure is secured, the likelihood of
vandalism or arson, the extent of the
deterioration, the economic likelihood
of eventual rehabilitation of the
structure, or cost of securing or effectively boarding the structure.
(5) Failure To Comply with Notice.
In case the owner, agent or person in
control fails, neglects or refuses to
comply with the notice to repair or
rehabilitate, or to demolish and
remove a public nuisance or unsafe
building, structure or a portion of
those, or to remove or abate any other
condition that is defined as a nuisance under this Chapter, the Director
may take appropriate action to take
repair or maintenance measures or
cause Utility services to be shut-off
under Section 3103.091 or to otherwise
abate the public nuisance. The Director shall specifically state in writing
the findings with respect to the structure, and shall determine whether to

1728

October 26, 2011
perform repair or maintenance based
on factors which may include the following: the distance of the structure
from neighboring structures, the type
of structure, the extent of deterioration, the likelihood of vandalism or
arson, the economic likelihood of
eventual complete rehabilitation of
the structure, the cost of repair or
maintenance.
(6) Notice of Intent To Demolish.
Except as provided in division (1) of
this section, the Director shall give
written notice informing the owner,
agent, or person in control, mortgagee
of record and lien holders of record of
the City’s intention to demolish and
remove the unsafe building or structure at least 30 days before the intended action by the City. The notice may
be effective concurrently with the violation notice. A condemned structure,
once effectively boarded by the owner
pending rehabilitation that later
becomes open to entry, may then be
demolished and removed, subject to
the Director giving written notice as
stated in divisions (e) (1) and (h) of
this section, upon a finding by the
Director that the structure can no
longer be effectively boarded.
(i) Junk Motor Vehicle Removal.
(1) Notice. The Director shall send
written notice, by certified mail with
return receipt requested, to the person
having the right of possession of the
property on which a junk motor vehicle, as defined in this Chapter, is left.
This notice shall notify the person
having right of possession of the
property that within ten days of mailing of the notice, the junk motor vehicle either shall be covered by being
housed in a garage or other suitable
structure or removed from the property. The notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place on the property.
(2) Director Authorized To Remove
Junk Motor Vehicles. The Director is
authorized to provide for and order
the removal of a junk motor vehicle
when the junk motor vehicle has not
been either covered by being housed
in a garage or other suitable structure or removed from the property,
within ten days of the date of mailing
and posting of the notice as set forth
above.
(j) Cases of Emergency. In cases of
emergency that, in the opinion of the
Director, involve immediate danger to
human life or health, the Director
shall promptly cause the building,
structure or a portion of those to be
made safe or removed. For this purpose he may at once enter the structure or land on which it stands, or any
abutting land or structure, with assistance and at the cost as he deems necessary. He may request the Director
of Public Safety to enforce the orders
he gives that are necessary to cause
the building, structure or a portion of
those to be made safe or removed. The
Director of Public Safety has the
authority to enforce the orders. He
may order adjacent structures and
premises to be vacated, and protect
the public by an appropriate fence or
other means as may be necessary, and
for this purpose may close a public or
private way.
(k) Costs to be paid by property
owner.
(1) Any and all expenses or costs,
including but not limited to attorneys
fees, costs of inspection, administrative staff and support staff, property
maintenance costs, court costs, title
search fees, process server fees, skip
tracing expenses, and costs of collec-

October 26, 2011
tion or prosecution, including discovery and deposition expenses, incurred
under this section relating to the
demolition, repair, alteration, securing or boarding of a building or structure or for abating any other nuisance
shall be paid by the owner of such
building or structure, except when
such expenses or costs are incurred
with respect to a government or
school building owned by a governmental entity or political subdivision
and are funded by federal money. Any
and all owners of a building or structure, who appear in the chain of title
from the time of receipt of a notice of
condemnation until demolition of the
building or structure, shall be jointly
and severally responsible for the all
costs and expenses incurred relating
to the demolition and all costs and
expenses of prosecution or collection
related thereto. In the case of a junk
motor vehicle, any and all expenses or
costs incurred under this section to
remove the vehicle shall be paid by
the person having the right of possession of the premises where the vehicle
is located.
(2) Whenever an inspection is
made after the compliance date stated
on a Notice of Violation of the Building Code, the Housing Code, or the
Zoning Code or after a compliance
date determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction
to
determine
whether the violation has been remedied and the violation has not been
remedied, or an additional permit is
obtained for work previously permitted and the original permit has
expired or was appropriately voided,
a fee of $100.00 shall be charged for
each inspection, except that this fee
shall not apply to one-family and twofamily
owner-occupied
dwelling
structures.
(3) If within 30 days from the date
the Director of Building and Housing
sends a statement of charges and
costs incurred to the last known
address of the property owner or the
tax mailing address listed at the
Cuyahoga County Recorder’s office
and its successor in interest as the
custodian of the real property tax
records for Cuyahoga County, the
owner fails to pay for the costs of
removal, repair, alteration, securing
or boarding or of inspections of violations that have not been remedied, or
the person having possession fails to
pay for the cost of removing a junk
vehicle, the Director may certify the
amount to the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses, including
collection agency fees. The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses
may make written return to the County Auditor of the action under this section with a statement of the charges
for services, the amount paid for the
performing of labor and a proper
description of the premises. Certification to the County Auditor is for the
purpose of making expenses and
costs a lien upon the lands, to be collected as other taxes and returned to
the City with the General Fund, with
special accounting under Section
715.261 of the Revised Code.
(4) Notwithstanding the method of
collection set forth in this division,
the Director of Law, in the Director’s
sole discretion, may take any action
necessary to collect the costs of demolition, boarding, or other nuisance
abatement from the owner or other
responsible party, including but not
limited to filing of legal proceedings,
referring the amount due to outside

The City Record
counsel by the Law Director for collection action, including filing civil
complaints, and initiating post judgment execution actions.
Section 367.08 Recovery of Expenses and Costs
(a) Any expenses or costs, including but not limited to attorneys fees,
costs of inspection, administrative
staff and support staff, property
maintenance costs, court costs, title
search fees, process server fees, skip
tracing expenses, and costs of collection or prosecution, including discovery and deposition expenses, incurred
under the provisions for demolition or
boarding contained in this Housing
Code shall be paid by the owner of the
dwelling structure or premises. Any
and all owners of a building or structure, who appear in the chain of title
from the time of receipt of a notice of
condemnation until demolition of the
building or structure, shall be jointly
and severally responsible for the all
costs and expenses incurred relating
to the demolition and all costs and
expenses of prosecution or collection
related thereto.
(b) Whenever an inspection is
made after the compliance date stated
on a notice of violation of the Housing
Code or the Zoning Code or after a
compliance date determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction for
compliance to determine whether the
violation has been remedied and the
violation has not been remedied, there
shall be charged a fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) for each such inspection,
except that this fee shall not apply to
one-family and two-family owneroccupied dwelling structures.
(c) If the owner fails to pay for the
cost of demolition or boarding or of
inspections of violations that have
not been remedied within thirty days
after the receipt from the Director of
Community Development of a statement of the charges and costs
incurred therein, then the Director of
Community Development may certify
the amount to the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses. The Commissioner shall make written return
to the County Auditor of the action,
under this Code, with a statement of
the charges for their services, the
amount paid for the performing of
such labor and a proper description of
the premises for the purpose of making the same lien upon such lands, to
be collected as other taxes and
returned to the City with the General
Fund with special accounting thereof
in accordance with RC 715.261.
(d) Notwithstanding the method of
collection set forth above, the Director of Law, in the Director’s sole discretion, may take any action necessary to collect the costs of demolition
or boarding from the owner or other
responsible party or parties, including but not limited to filing of legal
proceedings, referring the amount
due to outside counsel by the Law
Director for collection action, including filing civil complaints, and initiating
post
judgment
execution
actions.
Section 2. That existing Section
3103.09 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1112-A-07, passed June
2, 2008 and Section 367.08, as amended
by Ordinance No. 54-94, passed June 6,
1994 are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirma-

1729

9
tive vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1520-11.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Westbrook and Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 3103.092 and 367.131, prohibiting corporations from buying,
owning, selling or transferring real
property without registering and
identifying a statutory agent with the
Ohio Secretary of State.
Whereas, numerous domestic and
foreign businesses that are not registered with the Ohio Secretary of State
buy, own, sell, or transferring real
property in the City of Cleveland;
Whereas, finding the proper entity
for service of process and enforcing
the Building and Housing codes is difficult or impossible when businesses
are not registered with the Ohio Secretary of State; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Sections 3103.092 and 367.131 to read as
follows:
Section 3103.092
Prohibiting Corporations from Owning or Transferring Real Property without Registering with the Ohio Secretary of State.
(a) No corporation, partnership,
limited-liability company or other
business entity, whether domestic or
foreign, shall buy, own, sell, or transfer real property in the City of Cleveland without filing articles of incorporation and identifying a statutory
agent, filing articles of organization
and identifying a statutory agent, or
being licensed by the Ohio Secretary
of State and identifying a statutory
agent in accordance with Revised
Code Chapters 1701, 1702, 1703 and
1705.
(b) No officer of a corporation, partnership, limited-liability company or
any other business entity shall transact business to buy, own, sell or transfer real property in the City of Cleveland unless the business entity has
filed articles of incorporation and
identified a statutory agent, filed articles of organization and identified a
statutory agent, or been licensed by
the Ohio Secretary of State and identified a statutory agent in accordance
with Revised Code Chapters 1701,
1702, 1703 and 1705.
(c) Any corporation, partnership
limited-liability company or any other
business entity or officer who fails to
comply with the requirements of divisions (a) and (b) of this section is in
violation of this chapter and shall be
charged as an organization or individual with a first degree misdemeanor.
Each
property
bought,
owned, sold or transferred by a business entity that is not in compliance
with these requirements is a separate
violation.

The City Record

10
Section 367.131 Prohibiting Corporations from Owning or Transferring
Real Property without Registering
with the Ohio Secretary of State.
(a) No corporation, partnership,
limited-liability company or other
business entity, whether domestic or
foreign, shall buy, own, sell, or transfer real property in the City of Cleveland without filing articles of incorporation and identifying a statutory
agent, filing articles of organization
and identifying a statutory agent, or
being licensed by the Ohio Secretary
of State and identifying a statutory
agent in accordance with Revised
Code Chapters 1701, 1702, 1703 and
1705.
(b) No officer of a corporation, partnership, limited-liability company or

October 26, 2011

any other business entity shall transact business to buy, own, sell, or
transfer real property in the City of
Cleveland unless the business entity
has filed articles of incorporation and
identified a statutory agent, filed articles of organization and identified a
statutory agent, or been licensed by
the Ohio Secretary of State and identified a statutory agent in accordance
with Revised Code Chapters 1701,
1702, 1703 and 1705.
(c) Any corporation, partnership
limited-liability company or any other
business entity or officer who fails to
comply with the requirements of divisions (a) and (b) of this section is in
violation of this chapter and shall be
charged as an organization or individual with a first degree misde-

meanor.
Each property bought,
owned, sold, or transferred by a business entity that is not in compliance
with these requirements is a separate
violation.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Legislation, Finance.

Ord. No. 1521-11.
By Council Members K. Johnson, Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 131.42 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 1330-A-10, passed December 6, 2010, relating to cemetery rates.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 131.42 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1330-A10, passed December 6, 2010, is amended to read as follows:
Section 131.42 Cemetery Rates
The Commissioner of Park Maintenance and Properties shall collect the following charges for services, space, and
supplies at City-owned cemeteries effective January 1st of each year:
2012
(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Single grave section
(1)
Adult grave
Open & Close
Total
(2)

Infant grave (4 feet or less)
Open & Close
Total

(3)

Oversized Grave
Open & Close
Total

Flush Marker Lot Sections
(1)
One grave
Open & Close
Total

2013

Tues-Fri.

Sat.

Tues.-Fri.

Sat.

$501.00
$464.00
$965.00

$501.00
$647.00
$1,148.00

$551.00
$514.00
$1,065.00

$551.00
$697.00
$1,248.00

$116.00
$102.00
$218.00

$116.00
$153.00
$269.00

$116.00
$102.00
$218.00

$116.00
$153.00
$269.00

$1,002.00
$464.00
$1,466.00

$1,002.00
$647.00
$1,649.00

$1,102.00
$514.00
$1,616.00

$1,102.00
$697.00
$1,799.00

$743.00
$647.00
$1,390.00

$743.00
$921.00
$1,664.00

$793.00
$697.00
$1,490.00

$793.00
$971.00
$1,764.00

(2)

Family Lot (Two Graves)
Open & Close
Total

$1,486.00
$647.00
$2,133.00

$1,486.00
$921.00
$2,407.00

$1,586.00
$697.00
$2,283.00

$1,586.00
$971.00
$2,557.00

(3)

Oversized Grave
Open & Close
Total

$1,486.00
$647.00
$2,133.00

$1,486.00
$921.00
$2,407.00

$1,586.00
$697.00
$2,283.00

$1,586.00
$971.00
$2,557.00

$873.00
$647.00
$1,520.00

$873.00
$921.00
$1,794.00

$923.00
$697.00
$1,620.00

$923.00
$971.00
$1,894.00

Raised Marker Lot Sections
(1)
One Grave
Open & Close
Total
(2)

Family Lot (Two Graves)
Open & Close
Total

$1,746.00
$647.00
$2,393.00

$1,746.00
$921.00
$2,667.00

$1,846.00
$697.00
$2,543.00

$1,846.00
$971.00
$2,817.00

(3)

Oversized Grave
Open & Close
Total

$1,746.00
$647.00
$2,393.00

$1,746.00
$921.00
$2,667.00

$1,846.00
$697.00
$2,543.00

$1,846.00
$971.00
$2,817.00

$647.00
$872.00

$921.00
$1,207.00

$697.00
$922.00

$971.00
$1,257.00

Open & Closing for Lot Sections
(1)
Adult grave
(2)
Extra deep adult grave(depth of 8 feet)

1730

The City Record

October 26, 2011
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

On top of extra deep adult grave
Infant grave or still born on top
Cremated remains in urn
Cremated remains in vault

$872.00
$102.00
$334.00
$392.00

$1,207.00
$153.00
$450.00
$538.00

$922.00
$102.00
$334.00
$392.00

$1,257.00
$153.00
$450.00
$538.00

Urn Garden Section
Grave
Open & Close (includes marker setting and vault)
Total

$363.00
$421.00
$784.00

$363.00
$589.00
$952.00

$363.00
$421.00
$784.00

$363.00
$589.00
$952.00

Veterans’ Sections
(1)
Full Body Open & Close
(2)
Cremains in Urn
(3)
Cremains in Vault

$464.00
$334.00
$392.00

$647.00
$450.00
$538.00

$514.00
$334.00
$392.00

$697.00
$450.00
$538.00

Memorial Park Indigent Burial
(1)
Adult
Infant
(2)

$464.00
$102.00

NA
NA

$464.00
$102.00

NA
NA

$2,500.00
$2,700.00
$700.00
$700.00

NA
NA
NA
NA

$2,500.00
$2,700.00
$700.00
$700.00

NA
NA
NA
NA

$600.00

NA

$600.00

NA

$160.00

$160.00

$160.00

$160.00

$260.00

$260.00

$260.00

$260.00

Additional services available:
(1)

(2)

Disinterments
A. Adult grave
B. Adult grave—extra deep
C. Infant grave
D. Cremated remains - located in urn garden
E. Cremated remains - located other than
urn garden
Setting and foundation charges
A. Headstones
1.  18" x 10"
(Infant)
2.  2' x 1'
(Single)
3.  3' x 1' or 4'x 1'
(Double)
4. Resetting

$350.00

$350.00
$350.00
$350.00
one-half (1/2) of price listed above
for replacement of same size markers
$28.00
$28.00
$28.00
$28.00
$260.00
$260.00
$260.00
$260.00

5. Foundation (per cubic ft)
6. Veteran stones
B. Flower container
1. Purchase
2. Installation
3. Purchase & Installation
(3)

(i)

11

Miscellaneous services
A. Opening and closing grave for inspection
1.  Identify without disturbing remains
2. Remove for autopsy; replace in open grave
B. Private mausoleums: receipt and discharge
C. Highland Chapel Park Mausoleum
1.  Crypts: seal or unsealed
2.  Niches: seal or unsealed
D. Resale of repurchased niches and crypts
1. Niches in Highland Park Mausoleum
2. Crypts In Highland Park Mausoleum
E. Placement of additional remains in casket
at time of burial (recording fee)

$40.00
$30.00
$70.00

$40.00
$30.00
$70.00

$40.00
$30.00
$70.00

$40.00
$30.00
$70.00

$1,185.00
$1,273.00
$667.00

NA
NA
NA

$1,185.00
$1,273.00
$667.00

NA
NA
NA

$587.00
$448.00

$587.00
$448.00

$587.00
$448.00

$587.00
$448.00

$1,415.00
$3,575.00

$1,415.00
$3,575.00

$1,415.00
$3,575.00

$1,415.00
$3,575.00

$150.00

$150.00

$150.00

$150.00

$30.00

$30.00

$30.00

$65.00
$100.00

$65.00
$100.00

$65.00
$100.00

Administrative Charges
(1)
Bad Check Charge
$30.00
(2)
Late Payments
A. Payments received after interment including
checks that cannot be processed because of errors$65.00
B. Late/same day interment orders
$100.00

(j) The cemetery rates in this Section shall thereafter remain at their 2013 amounts until further Council action.
Section 2. That existing Section 131.42 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No.
1330-A-10, passed December 6, 2010, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Works, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation, Legislation, Finance.

1731

12
Ord. No. 1523-11.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Tax Increment
Financing Agreement with Garson
Victory, LLC, or its designee, to provide improvements to the Victory
Building located at 7012 Euclid
Avenue, Permanent Parcel No. 118-14005; to provide for payments to the
Cleveland City School District; and to
declare certain improvements to real
property to be a public purpose.
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, improvements to
real property may be declared to be a
public purpose where fee title to the
real property was, at one time, held by
the City of Cleveland and the real
property is then leased or conveyed
by the City; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the improvements
declared to be a public purpose may
be exempt from real property taxation; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the owners of the
improvements may be required to
make annual service payments in lieu
of taxes that would have been paid
had the improvement not been
exempt; and
Whereas, under Section 5709.41 of
the Revised Code, the exemption may
exceed 75% of the improvements for
up to 30 years when a portion of the
service payments so collected are distributed to the Cleveland City School
District (“District”) in an amount
equal to the amount the District
would have received had the improvement not been exempt; and
Whereas, the District has been notified of the intent to enter into the
agreement authorized by this ordinance in compliance with Sections
5709.41(C)(4) and 5709.83 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the improvements
to be constructed by Garson Victory, LLC, or its designee (“Redeveloper”), as more fully described in
File No. 1523-11-A (“Improvements”)
on the Real Property, are declared
to be a public purpose for purposes
of Section 5709.41 of the Revised
Code.
Section 2. That one hundred percent
(100%) of the Improvements are
declared exempt from real property
taxation for a period of 30 years; and
that in no event shall the exemption
period extend beyond 2042.
Section 3. That, under Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code, Redeveloper (or the owners of the Improvements) shall make service payments
for a period of 30 years in lieu of the
exempt taxes to the Cuyahoga County
Treasurer; the payments shall be
charged and collected in the same
manner, and shall be in an amount not
less than the taxes that would have
been paid had the Improvements not
been exempt from taxation.
Section 4. That a portion of the service payments collected under Section
3 of this ordinance shall be distributed by the Cuyahoga County Treasurer to the Treasurer of the District
in the amount of the taxes that would

The City Record
have been payable to the District had
the Improvement not been exempt
from taxation.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement or agreements with Redeveloper to provide
for the exemption and service payments described in this ordinance,
including agreements securing the
payments described in Section 3 of
this ordinance, which agreement or
agreements shall contain those terms
contained in the file mentioned above.
Section 6. That it is found and determined that all formal actions of this
Council concerning and relating to
the passage of this ordinance were
adopted in open meetings of this
Council, and all deliberations of this
Council and or any of its committees
that resulted in formal action were in
meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1514-11.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire and re-convey
properties presently owned by Garson
Victory, LLC, or its designee, located
at 7012 Euclid Avenue for the purpose
of entering into the chain-of-title
prior to the adoption of tax increment
financing
legislation
authorized
under Section 5709.41 of the Revised
Code; and authorizing an agreement
with Garson Victory, LLC, or its
designee.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire from and reconvey to, Garson Victory, LLC, or its designee, for
a price of one dollar and other valuable considerations determined as
fair market value, the following
property for the purpose of entering
into the chain-of-title prior to the
adoption of tax increment financing
legislation authorized under Section
5709.41 of the Revised Code and
more fully described as follows:
Permanent Parcel
Nos. 118-14-005 and 006
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being Parcel A in the
Plat of Consolidation of 7012 Euclid

1732

October 26, 2011
Avenue, 2036 East 71st Street of part
of Original 100 Acre Lot No. 336 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume
357 of Maps, Page 68 of Cuyahoga
County Records, as appears by said
plat.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
execute on behalf of the City of Cleveland all necessary documents to
acquire and to convey the properties
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, environmental audits, and
all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the properties.
Section 3. That this Council finds
that the conveyances constitute a
public purpose.
Section 4. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the Mayor on behalf of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Garson
Victory, LLC, or its designee, which
shall include the terms and conditions
of the transaction authorized by this
ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1522-11.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
Garson Victory LLC, or its designee,
to provide economic development
assistance as an incentive to redevelop the property known as the victory
Building located at 7012 Euclid
Avenue, and other associated costs
necessary to redevelop the property.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into one or more various types of loan agreements and
forgivable loan agreements under
the Vacant Property Initiative with
Garson Victory LLC, or its designee,
to provide economic development
assistance as an incentive to redevelop the property known as the
Victory Building located at 7012
Euclid Avenue, and other associated
costs necessary to redevelop the
property.
Section 2. That the terms of the loan
shall be according to the terms set
forth in the Summary contained in
File No. 1522-11-A, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at the public hearing on
this legislation, and are approved in

October 26, 2011
all respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the costs of the loan
shall not exceed $540,000 and the costs
of forgivable loan agreements shall
not exceed $180,000, for a total amount
of $720,000, and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 008, RQS 9501, RL 2011137.
Section 4. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept the collateral as set forth in
the file referenced above in order to
secure repayment of the loan. Any
loan agreement, security instrument,
or other document shall be prepared
and approved by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
accept monies in repayment of the
loan and to deposit the monies in
Fund Nos. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
charge and accept fees in an amount
not to exceed the maximum allowable
fees under federal regulations and
the fees are appropriated to cover
costs incurred in the preparation of
the loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. The fees shall be
deposited to and expended from Fund
No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. The contract authorized
in this legislation will require the
recipient of financial assistance to
work with The Workforce Investment Board for Workforce Area No. 3
to identify and solicit qualified candidates for job opportunities related to
the City’s contracts, and place special
emphasis on the hard to employ,
including but not limited to the disabled and persons who have been convicted of or have pled guilty to a criminal offense, unless the criminal conviction or related circumstances
relate to the duties for the particular
job sought.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1524-11.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Kelley, J. Johnson, Pruitt, Sweeney,
Cleveland, Polensek, Brady, Keane,
Brancatelli, Zone, Cummins, Reed,
Mitchell and Westbrook.
An emergency resolution declaring
opposition to Issue Three.
Whereas, in the General Election of
November 8, 2011 voters will be asked
to vote ‘yes’ or ‘no’ on the so-called
Health Care Freedom Amendment on
the ballot as Issue Three; and

The City Record
Whereas, the Amendment to the
Ohio Constitution says, “ No federal,
state, or local law or rule shall compel, directly or indirectly, any person,
employer, or health care provider to
participate in a health care system”;
and
Whereas, the Amendment defines a
‘health care system’ as “. . . any public
or private entity or program whose
function or purpose includes the management of, processing of, enrollment
of individuals for, or payment for, in
full or in part, health care services,
health care data, or health care information for its participants; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
responsibility for the public health;
and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland’s
population includes thousands of
uninsured people and underinsured
people; and
Whereas, the Health Care Freedom
Amendment is worded so that it could
make it more difficult for the City to
carry out its duty to its residents in
providing needed vaccines during
potential epidemics or sharing data
on health issues with government
entities; and
Whereas, the Amendment was originally designed to undermine the
national health reform act known as
the Affordable Care Act which is
already providing benefits to the people of Cleveland; and
Whereas, benefits already being
provided by the Affordable Care Act
include the following: young adults
can gain coverage through their parent’s group policies; preventive and
primary care procedures must now be
given without co-pays or deductibles;
the doughnut hole is being closed for
our senior citizens; small businesses
that provide coverage are receiving
tax breaks; and the pre-existing condition insurance plan is covering
some Clevelanders; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
calls upon the voters of Cleveland to
“Vote No” on Issue Three in order to
protect the gains we have already
won and those yet to be under the
Affordable Care Act and to protect the
City’s ability to protect the public
health; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its opposition to Issue Three.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to UHCAN Ohio, and
Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

1733

13
Res. No. 1525-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 2101
Denison Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Mohammed Hmeidan, DBA
Johnny’s, 2101 Denison Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 3877735; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Mohammed Hmeidan, DBA Johnny’s, 2101 Denison
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 3877735, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.

14
Res. No. 1526-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 668 Euclid
Avenue, unit 8P.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit from RG Caddy, LLC, DBA Caddyshack Lounge & Patio, 668 Euclid
Avenue, Unit 8P, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 7146923 to
627 Prospect, LLC, DBA Caddyshack
Lounge & Patio, 668 Euclid Avenue,
Unit 8P, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 8202311; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit from RG Caddy, LLC, DBA Caddyshack Lounge & Patio, 668 Euclid
Avenue, Unit 8P, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 7146923 to
627 Prospect, LLC, DBA Caddyshack
Lounge & Patio, 668 Euclid Avenue,
Unit 8P, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 8202311; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force imme-

The City Record
diately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1527-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D1,
D2, D3, and D3A Liquor Permit to 2102
Freeman Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit from Thinema Group,
Ltd., DBA Duck Island Club, 2102
Freeman Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio
44113,
Permanent
Number
8871268 to Cull Long & Michalak, LLC,
DBA Duck Island Club, 1st floor, 2102
Freeman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Number 1845797;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor Permit from Thinema Group,
Ltd., DBA Duck Island Club, 2102
Freeman Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio
44113,
Permanent
Number
8871268 to Cull Long & Michalak, LLC,
DBA Duck Island Club, 1st floor, 2102
Freeman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, Permanent Number 1845797;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions

1734

October 26, 2011
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code
of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1528-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 828 Huron
Road, 1st floor, basement and patio.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit from Alescis Gateway Café, Ltd.,
828 Huron Road, 1st floor, basement
and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 0103905 to Burson
Restaurant Management, DBA Huron
Point Tavern, 828 Huron Road, 1st
floor, basement and patio, Cleveland,
Ohio
44115,
Permanent
Number
1128498; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,

October 26, 2011
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit from Alescis Gateway Café, Ltd.,
828 Huron Road, 1st floor, basement
and patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 0103905 to Burson
Restaurant Management, DBA Huron
Point Tavern, 828 Huron Road, 1st
floor, basement and patio, Cleveland,
44115,
Permanent
Number
Ohio
1128498; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1529-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of Liquor License of a
D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 1313 West
6th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a transfer of
Liquor License of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit from Dujmovic Enterprises,
LLC, DBA Mrkis Place, 5379 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 2337798 to
MGFG, LLC, DBA Enigma, 1313 West
6th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 5378773; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

The City Record
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to a transfer of
Liquor License of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit from Dujmovic Enterprises,
LLC, DBA Mrkis Place, 5379 St. Clair
Avenue, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 2337798 to
MGFG, LLC, DBA Enigma, 1313 West
6th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 5378773, and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1530-11.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 3194 West 25th
Street, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from
2109 Tate, Inc., DA Teri O’s Lounge,
3194 West 25th Street, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 91163200005 to 3194
Tavern, LLC, DBA Stumble Inn, 3194
West 25th Street, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 8917129; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and

1735

15
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from
2109 Tate, Inc., DA Teri O’s Lounge,
3194 West 25th Street, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 91163200005 to 3194
Tavern, LLC, DBA Stumble Inn, 3194
West 25th Street, 1st floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 8917129; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1535-11.
By
Council
Members
Keane,
Sweeney, Kelley, Zone, Brady, Brancatelli, Miller, Pruitt and Cummins.
An emergency resolution urging
the City Planning Commission, the
Group Plan Commission, NOACA’s
Northeast Ohio Sustainable Communities Regional Planning, and other
planning efforts to incorporate Chicago-East Coast passenger rail services,
rights of way and facilities in their
efforts to support Amtrak’s ridership
growth and future expansion plans;
and further urging the Ohio Congressional Delegation to support the President’s funding recommendations for
Amtrak and high-speed rail in order
to support the development of
Amtrak’s rapidly growing ChicagoEast Coast services and future highspeed rail planning through Cleveland and Northeast Ohio.

16
Whereas, Greater Cleveland has
long been one of the nation’s largest
and most dynamic economies; and
Whereas, Northeast Ohio offers a
diverse base of manufacturing, agriculture, academic and government
research, and business services that
are often too distant from our cities
and from one another for effective
business development and sharing of
intellectual capital; and
Whereas, Greater Cleveland’s economic recovery is ahead of the
nation’s as measured in unemployment rates, but is still below rates
experienced during more prosperous
times; and
Whereas, fast, convenient and
affordable travel is needed to facilitate a stronger and more vibrant economy; and
Whereas, existing Amtrak services
through Ohio, linking Chicago to the
East Coast, have seen significant ridership increases in recent years, with
Amtrak forecasting it to grow from
500,000 riders per year in 2010 to more
than 900,000 riders by 2013; and
Whereas, a trunk line of improved
Amtrak service between Chicago and
the East Coast via Cleveland, operating at 90-110 mph with affordable
fares would provide a strong foundation for future high-speed trains of up
to 220 mph in the region; and
Whereas, high-speed trains would
transform the way we travel and do
business by making travel more
affordable and better connecting our
business, manufacturing, agricultural, and research and development centers; and
Whereas, high-speed trains would
strengthen our economy, drive productivity in the Region’s existing
commercial arenas, encourage job
growth, and help foster potential for
business investment, entrepreneurship, technology development and
advanced manufacturing; and
Whereas, the investment in a highspeed train network would lower our
consumption of foreign oil, saving
nearly 130 million gallons of gasoline
a year; and
Whereas, the construction of a
high-speed network would create
nearly 300,000 high quality construction, engineering and manufacturing
jobs; and
Whereas, The President has proposed an authorization of $53 billion
over the next 6 years for high-speed
and inter-city passenger rail development as part of the Administration’s
surface transportation reauthorization proposal outline in its February
budget; and
Whereas, The President has proposed $8 billion be appropriated in the
2012 budget in order to accelerate the
development of a high-speed rail network and its subsequent benefits; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the City Planning Commission, the
Group Plan Commission, NOACA’s
Northeast Ohio Sustainable Communities Regional Planning, and other
planning efforts to incorporate Chicago-East Coast passenger rail services,
rights of way and facilities in their
efforts to support Amtrak’s ridership
growth and future expansion plans.
Section 2. That this Council further
urges the Ohio Congressional Delega-

The City Record
tion to support the President’s funding recommendations for Amtrak and
high-speed rail in order to support the
development of Amtrak’s rapidly
growing Chicago-East Coast services
and future high-speed rail planning
through Cleveland and Northeast
Ohio
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution
to
President
Barack
Obama, all members of the Ohio congressional delegation, the members
of the Group Plan Commission, and
the members of NOACA’s Northeast
Sustainable Communities Regional
Planning.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
19. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE PASSED
Ord. No. 957-11.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
various sections of Chapter 557, as
amended and enacted by various ordinances, relating to the operation of
the Cemetery Endowment Fund, to
make certain references gender neutral, and to update the department
name.
Approved by Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Public Parks, Properties and Recreation; Passage recommended by Committees on Legislation, Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. Insert new Section 2 to read as
follows:
“Section 2.
That any amount
transferred from the Cleveland City
Cemetery Endowment Fund under
this ordinance shall not exceed
$2,300,000 without further Council
action.”.
2. Renumber existing Sections 2
and 3 to new “Section 3” and “Section 4”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1118-11.
By
Council
Members
Kelley,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance accepting
the terms of East Cleveland Ordinance No. 47-11 consenting to the provision of electric service by Cleveland
Public Power within the City of East
Cleveland and granting CPP a nonexclusive franchise.
Approved by Directors of Public

1736

October 26, 2011
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Legislation, Finance, when
amended, as follows:
1. In the third whereas clause, line
1, strike “Ordinance No. 47-11” and
insert “East Cleveland Ordinance
No. 47-11, placed in File No. 1118-11A,”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1294-11.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Brancatelli, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a Jobs
Ready Site grant from the Ohio
Department of Development Jobs
Ready Sites Program for the clean up
and
redevelopment
of
property
known as Building 42 located at 3615
Superior Avenue; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts with consultants or one or more
firms of consultants to implement the
grant project.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1431-11.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Brancatelli, Cleveland, J.
Johnson, Mitchell, Dow, Zone and
Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to extend
the moratorium on the review and
issuance of zoning permits, certificates of occupancy, and other license
or permit applications for internet
sweepstakes operations in the City of
Cleveland.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on
Legislation,
Finance,
when amended, as follows:
1. In the first whereas clause, line
1, strike “October 10” and insert
“October 18”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 1.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Cleveland,
Conwell,
Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Pruitt, Reed, Westbrook and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Member
Polensek.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1432-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the fourth option to renew Contract Nos. 61149, 61150, 61151, and

October 26, 2011
61152 with AT & T for Centrex supmaintenance,
installation,
port,
design, and repair of circuits, special
circuits, relocation of demarcation
sites and to provide for recurring service-related costs, for the various divisions of City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1433-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Substance Abuse Mental Health Services Administration for the Adult
Treatment Court Collaborative Program; and authorizing the director to
enter into one or more contracts with
Cuyahoga County and Case Western
Reserve University to implement the
grant.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1437-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
accept a grant from the Department
of Justice, Office of Community Oriented Policing Services, for the COPS
Hiring Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1438-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Department of Justice Violence
Against Women Act through the
County Criminal Justice Services
Agency for the 2012 Cleveland Domestic Violence Program; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with Cuyahoga County to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1439-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Attorney General for the FY 2011
Ohio Drug Use Prevention Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public

The City Record
Safety, Finance, when amended, as
follows:
1. In Section 2, lines 3 and 4,
strike “Nos. 10 SF 025, 10 SF 027, and
10 SF 049” and insert “No. 01-60025070”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1440-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services for the FY 2012 Cleveland High
Visibility Enforcement Overtime Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1441-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services for the FY 2011 Byrne Memorial
Justice Assistance Grant: Local Solicitation; authorizing the purchase by
one or more requirement contracts of
various types of equipment; and
authorizing one or more contracts
with Cuyahoga County, the Cities of
Euclid, Parma, Lakewood, Garfield
Heights,
the
Police
Executive
Research Forum, and other agencies
and entities needed to implement the
grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1442-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
State of Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services for the FY 2011 State
Byrne Memorial Assistance Grant for
the Northern Ohio Law Enforcement
Task Force Program; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies,
entities, or individuals to implement
the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1443-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authoriz-

1737

17
ing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services for the FY 2011 State Byrne
Memorial Justice Assistance Grant,
Northern Ohio Violent Crime Consortium; and authorizing one or more
contracts with Akron University and
various municipalities to implement
the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1444-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant and to
accept gifts of goods and services
from the Institution of Fire Engineers for continuation of the Vision
20/20 National Strategies for the Fire
Loss Prevention Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1445-11.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with
Tylerville LLC, or its designee, to provide economic development assistance as an incentive to clean up the
property known as Building 42 and to
redevelop it into office space, located
at 3615 Euclid Avenue, and other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the property.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance, when amended, as follows:
1. In the title, line 8, and in Section 1, line 5, strike “Euclid” and
insert “Superior”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1448-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from University Hospitals for the FY 2012
Cuyahoga County OVI Task Force
Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record

18
Ord. No. 1449-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services for the Veterans Court - Treatment Program; and to enter into one
or more contracts with Stella Maris,
Inc. to implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1450-11.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on behalf
of Cleveland Municipal Court, to
apply for and accept a grant from the
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services for the FY 2011 Violence
Against Women Act Court Training
and Improvement Program; and to
enter into one or more contracts with
the Domestic Violence Center and the
Center for Court Innovation to implement the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Fire who are members of the Ohio
Police & Fire Pension Fund.
Without objection, Resolution No.
1295-11 and Resolution 1296-11 were
relieved of further consideration of
all committees and laid on the table
pursuant to the Rules of Council.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19.
Nays 0. Resolution No. 1295-11 and
Resolution No. 1296-11 Laid on the
Table.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:15 p.m. to meet on Monday, October 31, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

October 19, 2011
Ord. No. 1482-11.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the Ohio Department of
Development, or its successor or
designee, for the rehabilitation of the
Victory Building located at 7012
Euclid Avenue; and authorizing a
contract with Garson Victory, LLC, or
its designee, to implement the project.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
LAID ON THE TABLE
Res. No. 1295-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution authorizing the City of Cleveland to offer to
pick-up all or part of the voluntary
contributions through a payroll
deduction for the purchase of service
credit by employees of the Division of
Police who are members of the Ohio
Police & Fire Pension Fund.
Res. No. 1296-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution authorizing the City of Cleveland to offer to
pick-up all or part of the voluntary
contributions through a payroll
deduction for the purchase of service
credit by employees of the Division of

The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, October 19,
2011, at 10:35 a.m. with Interim
Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Interim
Director
Langhenry, Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith, Cox, Acting Director
Bounds, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Others: Carol Whitaker, Acting
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.
Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 494-11.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.191 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of September, 2011 in the amount of
$12,357.75, attached and made a part
of
this
resolution,
is
received,
approved and ordered filed.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Bounds, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.

1738

October 26, 2011
Resolution No. 495-11.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
747-11, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on June 6, 2011,
MWH Americas, Inc. is selected
from a list of firms determined after
a full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities as the
firm to be employed by contract to
provide professional consulting services for the Water Quality Engineering Services, necessary to identify and resolve water quality problems in the treatment plants or in
the distribution system, including
but not limited to treatment process
optimization, compliance planning
for new drinking water regulations,
operational data analysis, demonstration studies, design, or regulatory determination, and other related
engineering services, for a period of
one year, with two one-year options
to renew, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
MWH Americas, Inc. based upon its
proposal dated August 5, 2011, which
contract shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, shall provide that
the compensation for the professional services described in the proposal shall not exceed $400,000.00,
and shall contain such other provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultant by MWH Americas, Inc.
under the contract authorized above
is approved
SUB-CONSULTANT

WORK
PERCENTAGE

The Kelly-Buck Company
(CSB)
$64,912.00
16.228%
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Bounds, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 496-11.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Section No. 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976
and Board of Control Resolution No.
442-11, adopted September 7, 2011,
the City through its Director of Port
Control, approved the award of a
contract to Cleveland Uniform, Inc.
“for the necessary items of required
employee uniforms, Items 1 (T),
(V), (HH) through (LL), through
(QQ), 3(F) (H) and 5”; and
Whereas, Resolution No. 442-11,
adopted September 7, 2011, inadvertently omitted Items (NN) through
(PP); now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 442-11, adopted September 7, 2011, is amended by inserting “(NN)” before “through (QQ)”.
Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 442-11
not expressly amended by this reso-

The City Record

October 26, 2011
lution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Bounds, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 497-11.
By Director Smith.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Plantscaping, Inc., for labor and
materials necessary to maintain and
replace interior plants, all items, for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control, for a period of
two years beginning with the date
of execution of a contract, received
on July 20, 2011, under the authority of Section 181.101 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $34,068.00,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Port Control is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
labor
and
materials
necessary,
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in an
amount not less than $34,068.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such labor
and materials, whether more or less
than the estimated quantity, as may
be ordered under delivery orders
separately certified to the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subcontractors
by
Plantscaping,
Inc.
is
approved:
Subcontractor

CSB/MBE/FBE %
Amount

Behnke Associates, Inc.

Copy King, Inc.

Architectural Floors of
Cleveland, Inc.

2.93% CSB
$1,000.00
0% CSB
$ 510.00

0% CSB
$6,057.00

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Bounds, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 498-11.
By Director Cox.
Whereas, by Resolution No. 177-03,
adopted on February 26, 2003 this
Board of Control established the
rental rates for the Cleveland Public Auditorium under the authority
of Section 131.15 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976;
and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
wishes to allow the Convention and
Visitors Bureau of Greater Cleveland (“Positively Cleveland”) or the
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission to use Public Auditorium on a
rent-free basis for up to twelve
events per calendar year, cumula-

19

tively, that are conducted for charitable or similar public purposes,
that are not for the purpose of generating a profit, and that are open
to the public free of charge (“Public Events”); now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that notwithstanding and as an
exception to the Public Auditorium
rental rates established by Board of
Control Resolution No. 177-03, adopted February 26, 2003, Positively
Cleveland and the Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission may cumulatively use Public Auditorium for twelve
Public Events annually rent-free.
Be it further resolved, that Positively Cleveland and the Greater
Cleveland Sports Commission shall
pay the actual costs, at the prevailing rates, associated with any labor,
materials, or equipment which are
provided to them respectively for or
at each Public Event, unless the
Public Event involves at least two
of the following conditions: (1) the
use of a minimum of 900 hotel rooms
on peak; (2) the use of a minimum
of three hotels; or (3) a minimum of
1500 attendees, in which case the
Director of Public Works may waive
the actual costs for any labor, materials, or equipment the City provides.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Bounds, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 499-11.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of RW Clark Company, Inc.,
for the Public Safety Buildings Concrete Apron and Platform Replacement, MEP Improvement Package
and General Trades Package, Base
Bid, A, B, C, D and E, Alternate Nos.
1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 2, 3, 4 and 5, for the
Department
of
Public
Works,
received on September 14, 2011,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
888-06, passed August 9, 2006 and
Ordinance No. 781-09, passed June 1,
2009, for a gross price for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $1,317,810, is affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Public
Works is authorized to enter into
contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by RW
Clark Company Inc. is approved:
CSB/MBE/FBE
Percentage

Subcontractor
Amount
Work Best Electric
$ 93,555.00

CSB/FBE
(7.099%)

R&R Mechanical
$205,100.00

CSB/MBE
(15.564%)

Cunningham Paving
$ 55,000.00

(4.17%)

Action Door
$ 45,600.00

(3.46%)

1739

RJ Heating Co.
$170,000.00

(12.9%)

Infinity Paving
$185,000.00

(14.04%)

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Bounds, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 500-11.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Michigan Police Equipment Company, for an estimated quantity of
various Police Rifles, items 3, 4 and
7, for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, for the period of one (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on July 7, 2011, under the
authority of Section No. 135.065 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount
to
$11,545.00,
is
hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is hereby requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
the goods and/or services, which
contract shall provide for an initial
order, the cost of which shall be certified to the contract in an amount
not less than $11,545.00
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Bounds, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 501-11.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Atwell’s Police and Fire Equipment Company, for an estimated
quantity of various Police Rifles,
items 1, 1A, 2, 5 and 6, for the Division of Police, Department of Public
Safety, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
July 7, 2011, under the authority of
Section No. 135.065 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$183,650.00, is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Safety is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or
services,
which
contract
shall provide for an initial order, the
cost of which shall be certified to
the contract in an amount not less
than $183,650.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods

20
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Bounds, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 502-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76, passed by the
Cleveland City Council October 25,
1976, the City is conducting a Land
Reutilization Program according to
the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Land Reutilization
Program,
the
City
has
acquired Permanent Parcel No. 01613-084, located at 3226 West 46th
Street under the Land Reutilization
Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1104-11
passed September 26, 2011, authorized the sale of the parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and
Whereas, Raed A. and Samah
Farah have proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
yard expansion; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1104-11, passed by the Cleveland
City Council September 26, 2011, the
Mayor is authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland to Raed A. and
Samah Farah for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 01613-084, as described in the Ordinance
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$500.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Bounds, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 503-11.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76, passed by the
Cleveland City Council October 25,
1976, the City is conducting a Land
Reutilization Program according to
the provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Land Reutilization
Program,
the
City
has
acquired Permanent Parcel No. 13121-056, located at 3416 East 53rd
Street under the Land Reutilization
Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1103-11
passed September 26, 2011, authorized the sale of the parcel for a
consideration established by the
Board of Control at not less than the
Fair Market Value; and

The City Record
Whereas, Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing Authority has proposed to
the City to purchase and develop the
parcel for New housing construction;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1103-11, passed by the Cleveland
City Council September 26, 2011, the
Mayor is authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland to Cuyahoga
Metropolitan Housing Authority for
the sale and development of Permanent
Parcel
No.
131-21-056,
as
described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Bounds, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
Resolution No. 504-11.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance Nos. 2380-02, 468-04, 185306 and 1329-08, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland on
December 16, 2002, April 26, 2004,
December 11, 2006 and October 20,
2008, respectively, and Board of Control Resolution No. 302-09, adopted
July 29, 2009, the City through its
Director of Port Control, entered
into Contract No. 69535 with URS
Corporation (“Consultant”), to provide professional services necessary
to prepare planning studies, for a
period of two years, with two
options to renew for additional two
year periods, for the various divisions of the Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, the City has determined
it necessary to revise the scope of
work to include additional professional services necessary to develop
a benefit-cost analysis for the City’s
TIGER Grant application; and
Whereas, the Consultant has proposed by its letter dated October 4,
2011 to perform the additional work
necessary
for
an
amount
of
$29,730.00; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into a first modification to City Contract No. 69535
between the City of Cleveland and
URS Corporation for additional professional
services
necessary
to
develop a benefit-cost analysis for
the City’s TIGER Grant application
as set forth in Consultant’s letter
dated October 4, 2011. The amount to
be paid for all services shall be
increased
by
$29,730.00
from
$256,666.00 to a total amount not to
exceed $286,396.00.
Be it further resolved that the
amount attributed to the following
subconsultant approved in Board of
Control Resolution No. 302-09, adopted July 29, 2009, is amended as follows:

1740

October 26, 2011
Percentage
Amount

Subconsultant

McGuiness Unlimited, Inc.
3.18% DBE
$9,104.00
Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 302-09
not expressly amended by this resolution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Acting Director Bounds, Directors Rush, Southerington, Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Butler.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2011
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 11-190: 4106 Pearl Road
(Ward 13)
Mathile Saad, owner, appeals to
establish a motor vehicle repair
garage on a 184' x 120' corner lot
in a Local Retail Business District
and by the provisions in Section
359.01 requires Board of Zoning
Appeals approval for a nonconforming substitution of use granted by
this Board in Calendar No. 75-3 to
convert a service station to installation of muffler and shock absorber
systems only, with a requirement
that a one and one-half foot high

October 26, 2011
barrier would be erected at the
street lines and no barrier was
erected; and subject to the limitations in Section 343.01 a motor vehicle minor repair garage is not permitted and first permitted in a General Retail Business District in
accordance with Cleveland Codified
343.14.
A
landscaped
Ordinance
frontage strip six (6) feet wide is
required where the parking lot borthe
street
and
a
ders
landscaping/transition strip ten 10)
feet wide is required where the lot
abuts a residence district according
to Sections 352.08-11 in the Cleveland
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 11-191: 3821 Lorain
Avenue (Ward 15)
Mig Ltd. Company and Ellen
Mueller, owner, appeals to establish
use as a motor vehicle service
(tire
installation)
on
a
garage
111.37' x 82.09' lot in a D3 Local
Retail Business District not permitted in the limitations under Section
343.11 and first permitted in a General Retail District subject to the
regulations under Section 343.14:
(a) that no motor vehicle service
station, service garage or car wash
shall be located on a parcel within
100 feet of a residence district
unless the following conditions are
met: (1) a solid board-on-board wood
fence or brick or stone wall at least
six (6) feet high is placed along any
property line abutting a residence
district; (2) no motor vehicle activity occurs within ten (10) feet of a
residence district; and (3) no service
bay or garage door is oriented
toward a residence district;
(b) no service station shall be
located on a “mid-block” property
except if on a street with a right-ofway that is at least 80 feet wide
(mid-block) is any property other
than a corner property, which is a
property located at the intersection
of two streets;
(c) no motor vehicle repairs shall
be performed before 7:00 AM nor
after 9:00 PM;
(e) all tires, barrels discarded
auto parts and other outdoor storage
of materials used or sold on the
premises must be screened from
view from adjacent properties and
streets by a “screen barrier” as
required under Section 352.10; and a
landscaped transition strip eight (8)
feet wide is required where the
property abuts the adjoining residence district according to Sections
352.08-10 in the Cleveland Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 11-192: 3266 East 49th
Street (Ward 5)
Hedalloy Die Corporation, owner,
and Joseph Susa appeal to expand
an existing die company on a 134'
x 150' lot in a C1 General Retail
Business District; subject to Section
359.01 the proposed project requires
the
Board
of
Zoning
Appeals
approval, if the Board finds after
public hearing that the expansion is
no more harmful or objectionable
than the previous nonconforming
use in floor or other space occupied,
in volume of trade or production, in
kind of goods sold or produced, in
daily hours or other period of use,
in the type or number of persons to
occupy or to be attracted to the
premises or any other characteristic

The City Record

21

of the new use as compared with the
previous
use.
A
landscaping
strip
6
feet
wide
is
frontage
required along East 49th Street pursuant to Section 352.10 and under
the provisions in Section 349.07
accessory off-street parking spaces
driveways and maneuvering areas
shall
be
properly
graded
for
drainage so that all water drains
within the lot that shall be surfaced
with concrete, asphalt or similar
surfacing material, and parking
spaces shall be provided with wheel
or bumper guards, and shall measure 180 square feet as defined in
Section 325.03 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 11-193: 2084 West 25th
Street (Ward 3)
United West 25th LLC, owner, and
Cleveland
Hostel,
Inc.,
tenant,
appeal to establish use as a 60 bed
hostel in an existing three-story
building located on a 51.20' x
112.06' parcel in a C4 Local Retail
Business-Pedestrian Retail Overlay
District
and
subject
to
Section
349.04(a) accessory off-street parking is required at the rate of one(1)
space per each four(4) beds, plus
one(1) for each employee expected
on the premises and three (3)
spaces are provided contrary to 11
accessory off-street parking spaces
that are required; and in a “C” area
district, the maximum gross floor
area shall not exceed one-half of the
lot area according to Section 355.04
and a gross floor area of 12,750
square feet is proposed contrary to
2,270 that is permitted; and side
yards of eight (8) feet are required
and not provided contrary to Sections 357.01(c) and 357.09 of the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 11-195: 12801 St. Clair
Avenue (Ward 10)
Alonso Pagan Jr., owner, appeals
to construct a major auto repair
shop for installation of security systems, alarms, speakers and air ride
technology in automobiles and sale
of various related products on a 65'
x 120' lot located in a C2 Local
Retail Business District; subject to
the limitations of Section 343.01 the
proposed major motor vehicle repair
shop is not permitted and first permitted under Section 345.03 in a
Semi-Industry District, provided that
it is located not less than 100 feet
from a residence district.
Calendar No. 11-201: 10210 Pierpont
Avenue (Ward 8)
Lula Harris, owner, appeals to
install a wheelchair lift 5' x 5' in
the front yard area with a 6' x 10'
access deck that will project 10 feet
into the front yard setback of a 40'
x 110' parcel, contrary to the restrictions under Section 357.13 in the
Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 11-205: 1948 West 58th
Street (Ward 15)
Isaac Franks, owner, appeals to
install a 4' x 4' manufactured
wheelchair lift in the front yard
area of a 40' x 77' lot in a B1 TwoFamily District contrary to the limitations under Section 329.04(c)(1)
in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

1741

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2011
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, October
24, 2011, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
following
The
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 11-177: 1460 West 29th
Street
The Bidwell Foundation appealed
for an addition and to establish use
as a museum in an existing building in a C2 Semi-Industry District.
Calendar No. 11-178: 3327 West 32nd
Street
Dimitri
Salivaras
appealed
to
establish a dance studio business in
a two-story building in a B1 General Retail Business District; subject
to conditions.
Calendar No. 11-179: 1812 West 57th
Street
Dimitri
Salivaras
appealed
to
erect a one-story frame garage addition to an existing dwelling in a B1
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 11-182: 14501 Rainbow
Drive:
Carol Brown appealed to erect a
20' x 20' one-story frame garage on
an irregular shaped corner lot in a
B1 Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 11-183: 3920 East 74th
Street
Kenneth Cuglewski appealed to
erect an L-shaped, wooden wheelchair ramp on a corner lot in a B1
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 11-155: 4919 Storer
Avenue
Gerardo
Sanchez,
owner,
and
Siomar Pietri, tenant appealed to
establish use for piercing and tattooing n a two-story building on a
corner lot in a B1 General Retail
Business District; subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 11-171: 3741 East 146th
Street
Cheryl Ladson appealed to install
a wheelchair lift and access deck in
the front yard portion of a corner
parcel in a B1 Two-Family District;
subject to condition.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following appeals were POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 11-176: 3860 West 140th
Street postponed to January 9,
2012.
Calendar No. 11-153: 3292 Fulton
Road postponed from October 31,
2011 to November 28, 2011.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on October 17, 2011 were
adopted and approved on October 24,
2011.

The City Record

22
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

DEPARTMENT OF

code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2011

Request for Proposals from qualified firms/consultants interested in
the redevelopment of the Variety
Theatre Building located at 10313
Lorain Avenue. The City is seeking
a qualified developer to complete a
plan for the redevelopment of the
Variety Theatre Building.
Proposals are due by 5:00 p.m. Eastern
Standard Time, Friday, November
11, 2011. For more information and
to see the Request for Proposals, go
to
http://www.city.cleveland.oh.us/City
ofCleveland/Home/Government/City
Agencies/Finance/RFP?_piref34_136
352_34_121844_121844.__ora_navig=a
ction%3Ddetails%26rfpId%3D3639
or call (216) 664-2202.

File No. 176-11 — Year 2012-A Cleaning and Cement Mortar Lining of
Distribution Mains, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 814-11, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 20, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00)
IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND OR MONEY ORDER ONLY
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
AT 10:00 A.M. THE CARL B.
STOKES,
PUBLIC UTILITIES
BUILDING, 4TH FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE, 1201 LAKESIDE
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
AVENUE,
44114

PUBLIC NOTICE
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL

Calendar No. 11-170: 11607 Euclid
Avenue
Maximum Accessible Housing of
Ohio appealed to construct a four
(4) story apartment building in a D2
Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 11-172: 12645 Lorain
Avenue
The Salvation Army appealed to
erect a double faced projecting sign
on a one-story building in a C2 General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 11-174: 1306 West 112th
Street
Valerie Totire appealed to erect a
wooden, open platform front porch
to a two family dwelling in a B1
Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 11-123: 9025 Lorain
Avenue
The 9019-9025 Lorain Avenue LLC
appealed to rebuild and re-establish
use of a motor vehicle service
garage in a Local Retail Business
District; subject to conditions.
following
The
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 11-175: 17722 Grovewood Avenue
Brenda Armstrong-Gary appealed
to use as a Type A day care the
first floor of a two family dwelling
in a C1 Multi-Family District.

October 26, 2011, November 2, 2011
and November 9, 2011

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

Secretary
For All Departments

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
DEPARTMENT OF
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Request for Proposals from qualified firms/entrepreneurs/businesses
interested in providing services of a
neighborhood grocery store including but not limited to fresh produce
& vegetables, meats, cheeses, bread,
and prepared foods located at the
vacant 1.78 acre City-owned property 10505 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
OH 44115. Proposals are due by 5:00
p.m. Eastern Standard Time, Friday,
December 16, 2011. For more information and to see the Request for
Proposals,
go
to
http://www.city.cleveland.oh.us/City
ofCleveland/Home/Government/City
Agencies/Finance/RFP?_piref34_136
352_34_121844_121844.__ora_navig=a
ction%3Ddetails%26rfpId%3D3617
or call (216) 664-3720.

October 19, 2011, October 26, 2011,
November 2, 2011, November 9, 2011,
November 16, 2011, November 23,
2011, November 30, 2011, December 7,
2011 and December 14, 2011

October 26, 2011

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise

1742

File No. 180-11 — Cab and Chassis
w/Cable Pulling Unit and Related Equipment, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Works, as authorized by Ordinance Nos. 1849-08 and
1602-10, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, January 26, 2009
and December 6, 2010, respectively.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 AT 10:00
A.M. THE MOTOR VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE,
4150
EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44105.
File No. 183-11 — Field Force Equipment, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 885-10,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, September 27, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
AT 10:00 A.M. THE JUSTICE
CENTER,
1300
ONTARIO
STREET, ROOM 731, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
File No. 184-11 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Remove Existing
Walk-Off
Carpeting
and
Install, for the Various Divisions of
Port Control, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2011 AT 10:00
A.M. THE DEPARTMENT OF
PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44135-3193.
October 19, 2011 and October 26, 2011

October 26, 2011
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2011
File No. 177-11 — Year 2012-B Cleaning and Cement Mortar Lining of
Distribution Mains, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 814-11, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 20, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00)
IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND OR MONEY ORDER ONLY
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
(NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2011
AT 10:00 A.M. THE CARL B.
PUBLIC UTILITIES
STOKES,
BUILDING, 4TH FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE, 1201 LAKESIDE
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
AVENUE,
44114
October 19, 2011 and October 26, 2011
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
File No. 178-11 — Repairing and
Maintaining Runways, Taxiways,
Ramps, Roads and Other Concrete
Surfaces, for the Various Divisions
of Port Control, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1119-11, pending.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 AT 10:00
A.M. THE DEPARTMENT OF
PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND
HOPKINS
INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S CENTRAL RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44135-3193.
File No. 179-11 — Purchase of LED
Holiday Decorative Lighting, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.26
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 AT 2:30
P.M. THE TOM L. JOHNSON
BUILDING,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
File No. 181-11 — Replacement of
Carpeting
Cleveland
Public
Power, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Ordinances No. N/A passed City
Council N/A.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 AT 11:30
A.M. THE TOM L. JOHNSON
BUILDING,
1300
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
File No. 182-11 — Stop Cock Boxes,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section 129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.

The City Record
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2011 AT 10:30
A.M. THE DISTRIBUTION AND
MAINTENANCE, 4600 HARVARD
AVENUE, PIPE REPAIR CONFERENCE ROOM, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44105.
October 19, 2011 and October 26, 2011
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2011
File No. 185-11 — Glenville Recreation Center Boiler Replacement,
for the Division of Architecture &
Site Development, Department of
Public Works, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 453-11, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 16, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S CHECK AND OR
MONEY ORDER ONLY (NO COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH AND
NO CREDIT CARDS WILL BE
ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2011 AT
10:00 A.M. THE CLEVELAND
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
CITY
AVENUE, DIVISION OF ARCHITECTURE & SITE DEVELOPMENT,
CONFERENCE
ROOM,
ROOM 517A, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
October 26, 2011 and November 2, 2011
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2011
File No. 186-11 — 2011 Ball Diamond
Improvement (Package B), for
the Division of Architecture & Site
Development, Department of Public
Works, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 453-11, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, May 16, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
IN
THE
AMOUNT OF TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS
($25.00)
IN
THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND OR MONEY ORDER ONLY
(NO
COMPANY
CHECKS,
NO
CASH AND NO CREDIT CARDS
WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2011
AT 2:00 P.M. THE CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 517A, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
October 26, 2011 and November 2, 2011

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1484-11.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution opposing
any effort by the State of Ohio to take
over the collection of municipal
income taxes in Ohio, and urging our
State legislators to reject and oppose

1743

23
any amendment to pending bills or
introduction of new legislation that
proposes to transfer collection and/or
control of municipal income taxes to
the State of Ohio Department of Taxation.
Whereas, income tax is the largest
source of revenue for all municipalities and any disruption or interference with the current collection
process will be harmful to the financial operations; and
Whereas, the prospect of State control of municipal income tax collection presents numerous administrative difficulties including, but not
limited to: how the State will administer Local tax ordinances; how retention of and access to tax records will
be handled; the timing and frequency
of distribution of collected revenues
would have a negative impact on cash
flow and financial stability of the
municipalities; the reporting of tax
collections to municipalities; collection of delinquent taxes and tracking
those persons not filing taxes; the
impact of planned budget and
staffing cuts; and the closing of the
Department
of
Taxation’s
Ohio
regional offices will hinder the ability of the Ohio Department of Taxation to undertake and properly perform such significant new responsibilities; and
Whereas, the State of Ohio is
infringing on the Home Rule Rights
of municipalities to self-govern as
stated in Section 7, Article XVII of the
Constitution of the State of Ohio; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its strong opposition to any
effort by the State of Ohio to take
over the collection of municipal
income taxes in Ohio, and urges our
State
legislators
to
reject
and
oppose any amendment to pending
bills or introduction of new legislation that proposes to transfer collection and/or control of municipal
income taxes to the State of Ohio
Department of Taxation.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized and directed to send a
certified copy of this resolution to
each member of the Ohio General
Assembly and Ohio Governor John
Kasich.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Adopted October 17, 2011.
Effective October 17, 2011.

Res. No. 1493-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D2,
D2X, D3, D3A, and D6 Liquor Permit
to 618 Prospect Avenue, 2nd floor
only.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and

24
D6 Liquor Permit from View Cleveland, LLC, Lauren Helbling Trustee
in Bankruptcy, 618 Prospect Avenue,
2nd floor only, Cleveland, Ohio 44115,
Permanent Number 9271909 to DMA
Level C, LLC, 618 Prospect Avenue,
2nd floor only, Cleveland, Ohio 44115,
Permanent Number 2215582; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
View Cleveland, LLC, Lauren Helbling Trustee in Bankruptcy, 618
Prospect Avenue, 2nd floor only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent
Number 9271909 to DMA Level C,
LLC, 618 Prospect Avenue, 2nd floor
only, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 2215582; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 17, 2011.
Effective October 19, 2011.

The City Record
Res. No. 1494-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D2,
D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit to
850 Euclid Avenue, Suite 120.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
ownership of a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and
D6 Liquor Permit from Cleveland Beverage, LLC, 850 Euclid Avenue, Suite
120, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 1543280 to Bishoff Management, LLC, 850 Euclid Avenue, Suite
120, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 0720570; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
Whereas, the place for which the permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D2, D2X, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
Cleveland Beverage, LLC, 850 Euclid
Avenue, Suite 120, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, Permanent Number 1543280 to
Bishoff
Management,
LLC,
850
Euclid Avenue, Suite 120, Cleveland,
Ohio
44114,
Permanent
Number
0720570; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

1744

October 26, 2011
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 17, 2011.
Effective October 19, 2011.

Res. No. 1495-11.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 3400
Carnegie Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Midtown Foods, Inc., 3400
Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 5928457;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Midtown Foods,
Inc., 3400 Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number
5928457; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from

October 26, 2011
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 17, 2011.
Effective October 19, 2011.

Res. No. 1496-11.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a
C1 Liquor Permit at 13939 Lorain
Avenue and repealing Resolution No.
1153-11, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to a
C1 Liquor Permit to 13939 Lorain
Avenue by Resolution No. 1153-11
adopted by the Council on August 17,
2011; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to AJD Gas, LLC,
DBA Liberty Gas USA, 13939 Lorain
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 0003708 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1153-11, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted October 17, 2011.
Effective October 19, 2011.

Ord. No. 1125-11.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 807 East 156th Street to
Matthew
Adkins
and
Tenesha
Thomas.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated
within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Revised
Code and Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is

The City Record
authorized to sell the real property,
fully
described
below,
to
more
Matthew
Adkins
and
Tenesha
Thomas.
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold under this ordinance is more
fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-24-058
Situated in the City of Cleveland
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being Sublot No. 40 in
Moses and Burton’s Subdivision of
part of Original Euclid Township Lot
No. 42, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 9 of Maps, Page 33 of Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall not be less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
made by official deed prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain such provisions as may be necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest including such restrictive covenants and
reversionary interests as may be specified by the Board of Control, the
Director of Community Development
or the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 17, 2011.
Effective October 19, 2011.

Ord. No. 1477-11.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance allocating
15% of Cleveland Casino Revenues
received by the City for use by Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, under the Ohio Constitution and ORC Chapter 5753, the State
levies a tax at the rate of 33% of the
casino operator’s gross casino revenue and the tax proceeds are distributed, in part, as follows: 1) 51% of the
tax is distributed among the 88 counties in proportion to their population
at the time of the distribution, and
Cleveland will receive 50% of the
Cuyahoga County share; and 2) 5% of
the tax is distributed to the host city,
like Cleveland, where the casino facility that generated such gross casino
revenue is located; and
Whereas, for purposes of this ordinance, “Cleveland Casino Revenues”
is Cleveland’s share of the tax on
gross casino revenue levied by the

1745

25
State of Ohio and distributed to Cleveland in accordance with Article XV,
Section 6 of the Ohio Constitution and
Revised Code Chapter 5753; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Casino
Revenues received by the City shall
be deposited into the general fund
and 15% shall be allocated for use by
Cleveland City Council; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Cleveland Casino
Revenues received by the City shall
be deposited into the general fund
and fifteen percent (15%) shall be
allocated for use by Cleveland City
Council.
Section 2. That a copy of the memo
distributed at the Finance Committee
on October 12, 2011, is placed in File
No. 1477-11-A.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 17, 2011.
Effective October 17, 2011.

Ord. No. 1483-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement Ordinance No. 647-11, passed
May 16, 2011, by adding new Section 5;
and to renumber existing Section 5 to
new Section 6, relating to authorizing
the purchase, lease, or lease to purchase by requirement contract of various types of vehicles and apparatus
for various divisions in the Departments of Public Works and Public
Safety, among others.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 64711, passed May 16, 2011 is supplemented by adding new Section 5 to
read as follows:
Section 5. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Finance may sign all
documents that are necessary to
make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 2. That existing Section 5
of Ordinance No. 647-11, passed May
16, 2011 is renumbered to new “Section 6”.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed October 17, 2011.
Effective October 17, 2011.

The City Record

26
COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, October 24, 2011
11:00 a.m.
Legislation Committee: Present:
Mitchell, Chair; K. Johnson, Vice
Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.

October 26, 2011

Authorized Absence: Dow,
Zone.
Chair;
Cimperman,
Miller,
Vice
Westbrook. Pro tempore: Keane.
Present
in
Planning:
Cleveland,
Chair; Brady, Keane, Zone. AuthoWestbrook,
Vice
rized
Absence:
Chair; Conwell, Dow. Present in:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Brady,
Keane, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt.
Authorized Absence: Miller, Westbrook.

Aviation and Transportation ComPresent:
Keane,
Chair;
mittee:
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell. Authorized Absence: K. Johnson.

2:00 p.m.

1:30 p.m.

Finance
Committee:
Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,

City Planning Committee:
Present: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook, Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell,
Dow, Keane, Zone.

Pruitt.
brook.

Authorized

Absence:

West-

Wednesday, October 26, 2011
10:00 a.m.

1:30 p.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee, City Planning
Committee, & Finance Committee:
Present
in
CDED:
Brancatelli,
Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, Pruitt,

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Economic Development — Acquire and re-convey property for TIF chain — of — title for Garson
Victory at 7012 Euclid Ave. (Ward 05) (O 1514-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732
Economic Development — contract with Garson Victory LLC., for Victory Building At 7012
Euclid Ave. (VPI) (Ward 05) (O 1522-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732
Economic Development — TIF for Victory Building At 7012 Euclid Ave. (Ward 05) (O 1523-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732

Air Show
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 66946 (O 1515-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 53rd Street, 3416 (Ward 5) — PPN 131-21-056 — Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing Authority per Ord. 1103-11 (BOC Res. 503-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740
West 46th Street, 3226 (Ward 14) — PPN 016-13-084 — Raed A. and Samah Farah per Ord.
1104-11 (BOC Res. 502-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740

Board of Control — Finance Department
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in September 2011 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 494-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 53rd Street, 3416 (Ward 5) — PPN 131-21-056 — Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing Authority per Ord. 1103-11 (BOC Res. 503-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740
West 46th Street, 3226 (Ward 14) — PPN 016-13-084 — Raed A. and Samah Farah per Ord.
1104-11 (BOC Res. 502-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740

Board of Control — Police Division
Rifles — per C.O. Sec. 135.065 to Atwell’s Police and Fire Equipment Company — Division
of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 501-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739
Rifles — per C.O. Sec. 135.065 to Michigan Police Equipment Company — Dept. of
Public Safety (BOC Res. 500-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Planning studies — modify Contract #69535 per BOC Res. 302-09 (BOC Res. 504-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740
Plants, interior — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Plantscaping, Inc. (BOC Res. 497-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739
Uniforms — amend BOC Res. 442-11 (BOC Res. 496-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

1746

October 26, 2011

The City Record

27

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Planning studies — modify Contract #69535 per BOC Res. 302-09 — Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 504-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740
Water Quality Engineering Services consulting services — per Ord. 747-11 to MWH Americas,
Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 495-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Board of Control — Public Auditorium
Public events — free of charge — Convention and Visitors Bureau of Greater Cleveland —
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — exception to BOC Res. 117-03 — Dept. of Public
Works (BOC Res. 498-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Concrete apron and platform replacement at Public Safety Buildings — MEP and General
Trades Improvement Packages — per Ord. 888-06, 781-09 to R.W. Clark Company, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 499-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Concrete apron and platform replacement at Public Safety Buildings — MEP and General
Trades Improvement Packages — per Ord. 888-06, 781-09 to R.W. Clark Company, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Works (BOC Res. 499-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739
Rifles — per C.O. Sec. 135.065 to Atwell’s Police and Fire Equipment Company — Division
of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 501-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739
Rifles — per C.O. Sec. 135.065 to Michigan Police Equipment Company — Division of Police
(BOC Res. 500-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Water Quality Engineering Services consulting services — per Ord. 747-11 to MWH Americas,
Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 495-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Board of Control — Public Works Department
Concrete apron and platform replacement at Public Safety Buildings — MEP and General
Trades Improvement Packages — per Ord. 888-06, 781-09 to R.W. Clark Company, Inc.
(BOC Res. 499-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739
Public events — free of charge — Convention and Visitors Bureau of Greater Cleveland —
Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — exception to BOC Res. 117-03 (BOC Res. 498-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in September 2011 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 494-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Plants, interior — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Plantscaping, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 497-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rifles — per C.O. Sec. 135.065 to Atwell’s Police and Fire Equipment Company — Division
of Police, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 501-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rifles — per C.O. Sec. 135.065 to Michigan Police Equipment Company — Division of Police,
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 500-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniforms — amend BOC Res. 442-11 — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 496-11). . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1739
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Board of Control — Water Division
Water Quality Engineering Services consulting services — per Ord. 747-11 to MWH Americas,
Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 495-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
East 146th Street, 3741, (Ward 2) — Cheryl Ladson, owner — appeal heard on 10/24/11
(Cal. 11-171) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 74th Street, 3920, (Ward 12) — Kenneth Cuglewski, owner — appeal heard on 10/24/11
(Cal. 11-183) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 11607, (Ward 9) — Maximum Accessible Housing of Ohio — appeal granted and
adopted on 10/24/11 (Cal. 11-170) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Road, 3292, (Ward 14) — Pawaw Mangla, owner — appeal postponed to 11/28/11
on 10/24/11 (Cal. 11-153) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grovewood Avenue, 17722, (Ward 11) — Brenda Armstrong-Gary, owner — appeal denied
and adopted on 10/24/11 (Cal. 11-175). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1747

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742

The City Record

28

October 26, 2011

Lorain Avenue, 12645, (Ward 17) — The Salvation Army, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 10/24/11 (Cal. 11-172) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 9025, (Ward 16) — The 9019-9025 Lorain Avenue LLC, owner — appeal granted
and adopted on 10/24/11 (Cal. 11-123). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rainbow Drive, 14501, (Ward 19) — Carol Brown, owner — appeal heard on 10/24/11
(Cal. 11-182) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Storer Avenue, 4919, (Ward 14) — Gerardo Sanchez, owner and Siomar Pietri, tenant —
appeal heard on 10/24/11 (Cal. 11-155) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 112th Street, 1306, (Ward 16) — Valerie Totire, owner — appeal granted and adopted
on 10/24/11 (Cal. 11-174) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 140th Street, 3860, (Ward 18) — Yuleter Deleon, owner — appeal postponed to 1/9/12
on 10/24/11 (Cal. 11-176) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 29th Street, 1460, (Ward 3) — The Bidwell Foundation, owner — appeal heard on
10/24/11 (Cal. 11-177) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 32nd Street, 3327, (Ward 14) — Dimitri Salivaras, owner — appeal heard on 10/24/11
(Cal. 11-178) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 57th Street, 1812, (Ward 15) — Dimitri Salivaras, owner — appeal heard on 10/24/11
(Cal. 11-179) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 49th Street, 3266, (Ward 5) — Hedalloy Die Corporation, owner and Joseph Susa —
appeal to be heard on 11/7/11 (Cal. 11-192) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Avenue, 3821, (Ward 15) — Mig Ltd. Company and Ellen Mueller, owner — appeal to
be heard on 11/7/11 (Cal. 11-191) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4106, (Ward 13) — Mathile Saad, owner — appeal to be heard on 11/7/11
(Cal. 11-190) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pierpont Avenue, 10210, (Ward 8) — Lula Harris, owner — appeal to be heard on
11/7/11 (Cal. 11-201) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 12801, (Ward 10) — Alonso Pagan, Jr., owner — appeal to be heard
on 11/7/11 (Cal. 11-195) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 2084, (Ward 3) — United West 25th LLC, owner and Cleveland Hostel,
Inc., tenant — appeal to be heard on 11/7/11 (Cal. 11-193) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 58th Street, 1948, (Ward 15) — Isaac Franks, owner — appeal to be heard on 11/7/11
(Cal. 11-205) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1740
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1741

Building and Housing Department
Amend Section 31003.09 and 367.08 — cost recovery condemnation to demolition (O 1519-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726
Enacting new sect(s) 3103.092 And 367.131 — Register Identify Statutory Agent with
Secretary Of State (O 1520-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729

Cemeteries Division
Public Works — Amend Section 131.42 — Relating To Cemetery Rates (O 1521-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1730
Public Works — Amend various sect(s) of Chapter 557 — Cemeteries (O 957-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736

City Council
Allocation of casino Funds (O 1477-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
Economic Development — 2010 Tax Incentive Review Council’s Recommendations (O 1517-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725

City of Cleveland Bids
Ball Diamond improvements, 2011 (Package B) — Department of Public Works — Division of
Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 453-11 — bid due November 18, 2011
(advertised 10/26/2011 and 11/2/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Boiler replacement at Glenville Recreation Center — Department of Public Works — Division
of Architecture and Site Improvement — per Ord. 453-11 — bid due November 17, 2011
(advertised 10/26/2011 and 11/2/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cab and chassis with cable pulling unit and equipment — Department of Public Works —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1849-08, 1602-10 — bid due
November 10, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carpet replacement — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public Power —
per Ord. pending — bid due November 17, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . .
Carpeting, remove and instal — Department of Port Control — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid
due November 10, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution water mains — cleaning and cement mortar lining (Area 2012-A) — Department
of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 814-11 — bid due November
10, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution water mains — cleaning and cement mortar lining (Area 2012-B) — Department
of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 814-11 — bid due November
11, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Field Force equipment — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police — per Ord.
885-10 — bid due November 10, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1748

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1742

The City Record

October 26, 2011

29

LED Holiday decorative lighting — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland
Public Power — per C.O. Sec. 129.26 — bid due November 17, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011
and 10/26/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
Runways, taxiways, ramps, roads and concrete areas repair and maintenance — Department
of Port Control — per Ord. 1119-11 — bid due November 17, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011
and 10/26/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
Stop cock boxes — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per C.O. Sec.
129.25 — bid due November 17, 2011 (advertised 10/19/2011 and 10/26/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743

City Planning Commission
Chicago-East Coast Passenger Rail Service (R 1535-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735

Cleveland Municipal Court
Apply & Accept Grant for The Adult Treatment Court Collaborative Program (O 1433-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
Veterans Court — Treatment Program — Grant — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services —
Stella Maris, Inc. (O 1449-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738
Violence Against Women Act Court Training and Improvement Program, 2011 — Grant — Ohio
Office of Criminal Justice Services — Domestic Violence Center & Center for Court
Innovation (O 1450-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Cleveland Metropolitan School District
Economic Development — TIF for Victory Building At 7012 Euclid Ave. (WARD 05) (O 1523-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732

Cleveland Public Power
Utilities Department — Provide CPP Service in East Cleveland (O 1118-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736

Codified Ordinances
Amend Sect(s) 131.02, 131.06, 131.07, 131.15, 131.16 and 131.19 — Manager of Special Events
(O 1516-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 31003.09 and 367.08 — cost recovery condemnation to demolition (O 1519-11)
Enacting New Sect(s) 3103.092 And 367.131 — Register Identify Statutory Agent With
Secretary of State (O 1520-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Works — Amend Section 131.42 — Relating to Cemetery Rates (O 1521-11) . . . . . . . . .
Public Works — Amend Various Sect(s) of Chapter 557 — Cemeteries (O 957-11) . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1724
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1730
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736

Communications
Economic Development — Proposal Publication — A plan for the redevelopment of the Variety
Theatre Building (10313 Lorain Ave.) (Ward 17) (F 1531-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

Community Development
East 156th St., 807 — PPN 115-24-058 — Land Reutilization Program — Matthew Adkins
& Tenesha Thomas (Ward 11) (O 1125-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745

Condolences
Ferchill, Angeline “ Angie” (R 1536-11) .
Huey, Sr., Theodore Edward (R 1539-11)
Jones, Jr., Horace (R 1537-11) . . . . . . . . . .
Miller, Mrs Helen (R 1538-11) . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1723
1723
1723
1723

Amla Lodge No. 6, Slovenski Dom (R 1546-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation (R 1545-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jackson, Mayor Frank G. (R 1544-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nottage, Donn R. (R 1540-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Social Action Committee of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. (R 1541-11) .
The Call & Post — 95th Anniversary (R 1542-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zenty III, Thomas F. (R 1543-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1723
1723
1723
1723
1723
1723
1723

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

Congratulations

Contracts
Economic Development — Tylerville LLC, — Clean up property known as Bldg. 42 at 3615
Superior Ave. (VPI) (O 1445-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
Economic Development — Apply & Accept Jobs Ready Site Grant — Clean up & redevelopment
of Bldg. 42 at 3615 Superior Ave. (Ward 08) (O 1294-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736
Economic Development — Garson Victory LLC., for Victory Building At 7012 Euclid Ave. (VPI)
(Ward 05) (O 1522-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732

1749

The City Record

30

October 26, 2011

Economic Development — Grant — Ohio Dept. Of Development — Rehab Of Victory Bldg. (7012
Euclid Ave.) — Garson Victory, LLC (O 1482-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew AT&T Centrex Contract Nos. 61149, 61150, 61151, and 61152 For
support, maintenance, installation, design, and repair (O 1432-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew Contract No. 66946 — Cleveland Air Show (O 1515-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insurance — Group Medical, Dental, Vision, Life — Medical Reimbursement — Dependent C Are
Accounts — Premium Pass — Through Benefits (O 1518-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Veterans Court — Treatment Program — Grant — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services —
Stella Maris, Inc. (O 1449-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Violence Against Women Act Court Training and Improvement Program, 2011 — Grant — Ohio
Office Of Criminal Justice Services — Domestic Violence Center & Center For Court
Innovation (O 1450-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1738
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1736
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1725
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Cuyahoga County
Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, 2011 — Grants — local solicitation — Safety
Department — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services (O 1441-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737

Economic Development Department
2010 Tax Incentive Review Council’s Recommendations (O 1517-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Acquire and re-convey property for TIF chain — of — title for Garson Victory at 7012 Euclid
Ave. (Ward 05) (O 1514-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply & Accept Jobs Ready Site Grant — Clean up & redevelopment of Bldg. 42 at 3615
Superior Ave. (Ward 08) (O 1294-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contract — Tylerville LLC, — Clean up property known as Bldg. 42 At 3615 Superior Ave.
(VPI) (O 1445-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contract with Garson Victory LLC., for Victory Building at 7012 Euclid Ave. (VPI) (Ward
05) (O 1522-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grant — Ohio Dept. of Development — Rehab of Victory Bldg. (7012 Euclid Ave.) — contract —
Garson Victory, LLC (O 1482-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Proposal Publication — A Plan for the redevelopment of the Variety Theatre Building (10313
Lorain Ave.) (Ward 17) (F 1531-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TIF for Victory Building at 7012 Euclid Ave. (Ward 05) (O 1523-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732

Finance Department
Amend Ord. No. 647-11 — All city vehicles (O 1483-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply & Accept Grant For The Adult Treatment Court Collaborative Program (O 1433-11) . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew AT&T Centrex Contract Nos. 61149, 61150, 61151, and 61152 for
support, maintenance, installation, design, and repair (O 1432-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire Division Pension Pick-Up (R 1296-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Police Pension Pick — Up (R 1295-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Veterans Court — Treatment Program — Grant — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services —
Stella Maris, Inc. (O 1449-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Violence Against Women Act Court Training And Improvement Program, 2011 — Grant — Ohio
Office of Criminal Justice Services — Domestic Violence Center & Center For Court
Innovation (O 1450-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Fire Division
Apply & Accept Gifts and Grants for The Fire Loss Prevention Program (O 1444-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
Finance Department — Fire Division Pension Pick-Up (R 1296-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Grants
Apply & Accept Gifts and Grants for The Fire Loss Prevention Program (O 1444-11) . . . . . . . . . . .
Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, 2011 — local solicitation — Safety Department —
Ohio Office Of Criminal Justice Services (O 1441-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2012 — Department of Justice Violence Against Women
Act — County Criminal Justice Services Agency (O 1438-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland High Visibility Enforcement Overtime Program, 2012 — Safety Department — Ohio
Office of Criminal Justice Services (O 1440-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cops Hiring Program — Office Of Community Oriented Policing Services — U.S. Department
of Justice (O 1437-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga County OVI Task Force Program, 2012 — Safety Department — University Hospital
(O 1448-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Ohio Dept. of Development — Rehab of Victory Bldg. (7012 Euclid
Ave.) — Contract — Garson Victory, LLC (O 1482-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Apply & Accept Jobs Ready Site Grant — Clean up & redevelopment
of Bldg. 42 at 3615 Superior Ave. (Ward 08) (O 1294-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Drug Use Prevention Program, 2011 — Ohio Attorney General (O 1439-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Byrne Memorial Assistance Grant, 2011 — Northern Ohio Law Enforcement Task Force
Program — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services (O 1442-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, 2011 — Northern Ohio Violent Crime
Consortium — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services (O 1443-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1750

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737

October 26, 2011

The City Record

31

The Adult Treatment Court Collaborative Program (O 1433-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
Veterans Court — Treatment Program — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services — Stella
Maris, Inc. (O 1449-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738
Violence Against Women Act Court Training And Improvement Program, 2011 — Ohio Office of
Criminal Justice Services — Domestic Violence Center & Center For Court Innovation
(O 1450-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Human Resources Department
Insurance — Group Medical, Dental, Vision, Life — Medical Reimbursement — Dependent C are
Accounts — Premium Pass — Through Benefits (O 1518-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725

Income Tax
Objecting to State Takeover of Local Tax Collections (R 1484-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743

Insurance
Group Medical, Dental, Vision, Life — Medical Reimbursement — Dependent C are Accounts —
Premium Pass — Through Benefits (O 1518-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725

Land Reutilization Program
East 156th St., 807 — PPN 115-24-058 — Matthew Adkins & Tenesha Thomas (Ward 11) (O 1125-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745

Licenses
Internet Sweepstakes Operations — Moratorium Extension (O 1431-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736

Liquor Permits
Carnegie Ave., 3400 — objection to issuance (Ward 05) (R 1495-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Ave., 2101 — objection to issuance (Ward 03) (R 1525-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 668 (Unit 8p) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 1526-11) . . . .
Euclid Ave., 668 (Unit 8p) — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 1532-11) . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 850 (Suite 120) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 1494-11) . . .
Freeman Ave., 2102 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 1527-11) . . . . . . . . . .
Huron Rd., 828 (1st Fl., Bsmt. & Patio) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03)
(R 1528-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Huron Rd., 828 (1st Fl., Bsmt. & Patio) — transfer of ownership application (Ward
03) (F 1533-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 13939 — withdrawing objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1153-11 (Ward
18) (R 1496-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., 618 (2nd Floor only) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03)
(R 1493-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th St., 3194 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 14)
(R 1530-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1313 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 03) (R 1529-11) . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1313 — transfer of ownership and location application (Ward 03) (F 1534-11) .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1744
1733
1734
1723
1744
1734

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

MAYOR’S OFFICE
Allocation Of Casino Funds (O 1477-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Section 31003.09 and 367.08 — cost recovery condemnation to demolition (O 1519-11)
Enacting New Sect(s) 3103.092 and 367.131 — Register Identify Statutory Agent With
Secretary Of State (O 1520-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Internet Sweepstakes Operations — Moratorium Extension (O 1431-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Objecting to State Takeover of Local Tax Collections (R 1484-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1726
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743

Ohio Revised Code
Finance Department — Fire Division Pension Pick-Up (R 1296-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738
Finance Department — Police Pension Pick — Up (R 1295-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Permits
Internet Sweepstakes Operations — Moratorium Extension (O 1431-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736

Police Division
Finance Department — Police Pension Pick — Up (R 1295-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Port Control Department
Exercise Option To Renew Contract No. 66946 — Cleveland Air Show (O 1515-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

1751

The City Record

32

October 26, 2011

Professional Services
Economic Development — Apply & Accept Jobs Ready Site Grant — Clean up & redevelopment
of Bldg. 42 at 3615 Superior Ave. (Ward 08) (O 1294-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736
Insurance — Group Medical, Dental, Vision, Life — Medical Reimbursement — Dependent Care
Accounts — Premium Pass — Through Benefits (O 1518-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1725

Public Works
Amend Sect(s) 131.02, 131.06, 131.07, 131.15, 131.16 And 131.19 — Manager Of Special Events
(O 1516-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1724
Amend Section 131.42 — Relating To Cemetery Rates (O 1521-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1730
Amend Various Sect(s) of Chapter 557 — Cemeteries (O 957-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736

Purchases And Supplies Division
Economic Development — Acquire and Re-Convey Property for TIF chain — of — title for Garson
Victory at 7012 Euclid Ave. (Ward 05) (O 1514-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1732

Recognition
32nd Degree Masons Of The Ancient And Accepted Scottish Rite, Valley Of Cleveland (R 1548-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
National Hospice / Palliative Care Month (R 1547-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

Resolution of Support
Chicago-East Coast Passenger Rail Service (R 1535-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Chicago-East Coast Passenger Rail Service (R 1535-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735
Objecting to State Takeover of Local Tax Collections (R 1484-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733

Safety Department
Apply & Accept Gifts and Grants For The Fire Loss Prevention Program (O 1444-11) . . . . . . . . . .
Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, 2011 — Grants — local solicitation — Ohio Office
Of Criminal Justice Services (O 1441-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Domestic Violence Program, 2012 — Grant- Department of Justice Violence Against
Women Act — County Criminal Justice Services Agency (O 1438-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland High Visibility Enforcement Overtime Program, 2012 — Grant — Ohio Office
Of Criminal Justice Services (O 1440-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cops Hiring Program — Grants — Office Of Community Oriented Policing Services — U.S.
Department Of Justice (O 1437-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga County OVI Task Force Program, 2012 — Grant — University Hospital (O 1448-11) . .
Finance Department — Fire Division Pension Pick-Up (R 1296-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Finance Department — Police Pension Pick — Up (R 1295-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Drug Use Prevention Program, 2011 — Grant — Ohio Attorney General (O 1439-11) . . . . . . .
State Byrne Memorial Assistance Grant, 2011 — Northern Ohio Law Enforcement Task Force
Program — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services (O 1442-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, 2011 — Northern Ohio Violent Crime
Consortium — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services (O 1443-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1737
1737
1738
1738
1737

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737

State Of Ohio
Enacting New Sect(s) 3103.092 and 367.131 — Register Identify Statutory Agent With
Secretary Of State (O 1520-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1729
Objecting to State Takeover of Local Tax Collections (R 1484-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743

Tabled Legislation
Finance Department — Police Pension Pick — Up (R 1295-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738
Finance Department — Fire Division Pension Pick-Up (R 1296-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1738

Utilities Department
Provide CPP Service in East Cleveland (O 1118-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736

Vehicles
Amend Ord. No. 647-11 — All City Vehicles (O 1483-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745

1752

October 26, 2011

The City Record

33

Ward 01
Jones, Jr., Horace — Condolence (R 1537-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
Miller, Mrs Helen — Condolence (R 1538-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733

Ward 02
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733

WARD 03
Denison Ave., 2101 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1525-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 668 (Unit 8P) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1526-11)
Euclid Ave., 668 (Unit 8P) — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1532-11) .
Euclid Ave., 850 (Suite 120) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permits
(R 1494-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ferchill, Angeline “ Angie” — Condolence (R 1536-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Freeman Ave., 2102 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 1527-11) . . . . . .
Huron Rd., 828 (1st Fl., Bsmt. & Patio) — objection to transfer of ownership —
liquor permit (R 1528-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Huron Rd., 828 (1st Fl., Bsmt. & Patio) — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit
(F 1533-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., 618 (2nd Floor Only) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit
(R 1493-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 6th St., 1313 — objection to transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (R 1529-11) . . . . .
West 6th St., 1313 — transfer of ownership and location application — liquor permit
(F 1534-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1744
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1734
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1743
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

WARD 05
Carnegie Ave., 3400 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1495-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Acquire and re-convey property for TIF chain — of — title for Garson
Victory at 7012 Euclid Ave. (O 1514-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Contract with Garson Victory LLC., for Victory Building at 7012
Euclid Ave. (VPI) (O 1522-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Grant — Ohio Dept. Of Development — Rehab of Victory Bldg. (7012
Euclid Ave.) — contract — Garson Victory, LLC (O 1482-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — TIF for Victory Building at 7012 Euclid Ave.(O 1523-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Call & Post — 95th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 1542-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1744
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1732
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1732
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1738
1732
1733
1723

Ward 06
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733
The Call & Post — 95th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 1542-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

Ward 08
Economic Development — Apply & Accept Jobs Ready Site Grant — Clean up & redevelopment
of Bldg. 42 at 3615 Superior Ave. (O 1294-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736
Economic Development — contract — Tylerville LLC, — Clean up property known as Bldg. 42
at 3615 Superior Ave. (VPI) (O 1445-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1737
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733

Ward 10
Huey, Sr., Theodore Edward — Condolence (R 1539-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

Ward 11
32nd Degree Masons Of The Ancient And Accepted Scottish Rite, Valley Of Cleveland —
Recognition (R 1548-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
AMLA Lodge No. 6, Slovenski Dom — Congratulations (R 1546-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 156th St., 807 — PPN 115-24-058 — Land Reutilization Program — Matthew Adkins
& Tenesha Thomas (O 1125-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Hospice / Palliative Care Month — Recognition (R 1547-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1745
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733

Ward 12
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733

1753

The City Record

34

October 26, 2011

Ward 13
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733

Ward 14
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733
West 25th St., 3194 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit
(R 1530-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735

Ward 15
Jackson, Mayor Frank G. — Congratulations (R 1544-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733
Zenty III, Thomas F. — Congratulations (R 1543-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723

Ward 16
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733

Ward 17
Economic Development — Proposal Publication — A plan for the redevelopment of the Variety
Theatre Building (10313 Lorain Ave.) (F 1531-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733

WARD 18
Bellaire Puritas Development Corporation — Congratulations (R 1545-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ferchill, Angeline “ Angie” — Condolence (R 1536-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jackson, Mayor Frank G. — Congratulations (R 1544-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 13939 — withdrawing objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1153-11 — liquor permit
(R 1496-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nottage, Donn R. — Congratulations (R 1540-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Social Action Committee of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. — Congratulations (R 1541-11) . .
The Call & Post — 95th Anniversary — Congratulations (R 1542-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zenty III, Thomas F. — Congratulations (R 1543-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1723
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1745
1723
1733
1723
1723
1723

Ward 19
Chicago-East Coast Passenger Rail Service (R 1535-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1735
Opposition To Issue Three (R 1524-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1733

Zoning Code
Internet Sweepstakes Operations — Moratorium Extension (O 1431-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1736

1754

