The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

September the Twenty-First, Two Thousand and Eleven

Frank G. Jackson

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Mayor

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward Name
1 Terrell H. Pruitt
2 Zachary Reed
3 Joe Cimperman
4 Kenneth L. Johnson
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland
6 Mamie J. Mitchell
7 TJ Dow
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson
9 Kevin Conwell
10 Eugene R. Miller
11 Michael D. Polensek
12 Anthony Brancatelli
13 Kevin J. Kelley
14 Brian J. Cummins
15 Matthew Zone
16 Jay Westbrook
17 Dona Brady
18 Martin J. Sweeney
19 Martin J. Keane

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
28
28
31
31
31
34
34
34
35
45
46

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
Name Residence
1 Terrell H. Pruitt 3877 East 189th Street 44122
2 Zachary Reed 3734 East 149th Street 44120
3 Joe Cimperman P.O. Box 91688 44101
4 Kenneth L. Johnson 2948 Hampton Road 44120
5 Phyllis E. Cleveland 2369 East 36th Street 44105
6 Mamie J. Mitchell 12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712 44120
7 TJ Dow 7715 Decker Avenue 44103
8 Jeffrey D. Johnson 9024 Parkgate Avenue 44108
9 Kevin Conwell 10647 Ashbury Avenue 44106
10 Eugene R. Miller 13615 Kelso Avenue 44110
11 Michael D. Polensek 17855 Brian Avenue 44119
12 Anthony Brancatelli 6924 Ottawa Road 44105
13 Kevin J. Kelley 5904 Parkridge Avenue 44144
14 Brian J. Cummins 3104 Mapledale Avenue 44109
15 Matthew Zone 1228 West 69th Street 44102
16 Jay Westbrook 1278 West 103rd Street 44102
17 Dona Brady 1272 West Boulevard 44102
18 Martin J. Sweeney 3632 West 133rd Street 44111
19 Martin J. Keane 15907 Colletta Lane 44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Andrew Watterson, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Sustainability
Natoya J. Walker Minor, Chief of Public Affairs — Interim Director of Equal Opportunity.
OFFICE OF CAPITAL PROJECTS – Jomarie Wasik, Director
DIVISIONS:
Architecture and Site Development – Robert Vilkas, Chief Architect, Manager
Engineering and Construction — _________, Manager
Real Estate — __________, Commissioner
DEPT. OF LAW – Barbara A. Langhenry, Interim Director, _________, Chief Counsel,
Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel, Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel,
Room 106: Michael Ruffing, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS:
Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – ________________, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS:
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – Bernardo Garcia, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Rachid Zoghaib, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
DIVISIONS:
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC WORKS – Michael Cox, Director
OFFICES:
Administration – John Laird, Manager
Special Events and Marketing – Tangee Johnson, Manager
DIVISIONS:
Motor Vehicle Maintenance – Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner
Streets – _______, Commissioner
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Karen Butler, Interim Director, Mural Building, 75
Erieview Plaza
DIVISIONS:
Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza
Health – Karen K. Butler, Commissioner, Mural Building, 75 Erieview Plaza

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS:
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director
DIVISIONS:
Administrative Services – Jesus Rodriguez, Commissioner
Fair Housing and Consumer Affairs Office – ________, Manager
Neighborhood Development – _______, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS:
Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF HUMAN RESOURCES – Deborah Southerington, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director, Mayor Frank
G. Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Dr. Charles P. Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman, Council
Member Brian Cummins, Council Member Eugene R. Miller, Jeff Marks, (Board Lawyer),
Roosevelt E. Coats, Jenice Contreras, Kathryn Hall, Yasir Hamdallah, Evangeline
Hardaway, John O. Horton, Annie Key, Stephanie Morrison-Hrbek, Roland Muhammad,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Ted C. Wammes, Peter Whitt.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Robert Bennett, President; Michael L.
Nelson, Sr., Vice-President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Pastor Gregory Jordan,
Michael Flickinger.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, Jan Huber, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry, President; Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President
Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Interim Law
Director Barbara A. Langhenry; Council Member Eugene R. Miller.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Interim Law Director Barbara A.
Langhenry; Utilities Director Barry A. Withers; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Phyllis E. Cleveland.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; Lisa Camacho, Daniel Conway, Robert L.
Render, Genesis O. Brown.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Interim Law Director Barbara A. Langhenry;
Chairman; Finance Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney;
Councilman Kevin Kelley.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Jennifer Coleman, Chair;
Laura M. Bala, Council Member Anthony Brancatelli, Robert N. Brown, Thomas Coffey,
Allan Dreyer, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert
Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Yvette M. Ittu, Chairman; Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis, Diane
Downing, Donna Sciarappa, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Interim Law Director
Barbara A. Langhenry.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Ronald B. Adrine – Courtroom 15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy – Courtroom 12B
Judge Michelle Denise Earley – Courtroom 12C
Judge Emanuella Groves – Courtroom 14B
Judge Anita Laster Mays – Courtroom 14C
Judge Lynn McLaughlin-Murray – Courtroom 12A
Judge Lauren C. Moore – Courtroom 14A
Judge Charles L. Patton, Jr. – Courtroom 13D
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge) – Courtroom 13B
Judge Michael John Ryan – Courtroom 13A
Judge Angela R. Stokes – Courtroom 15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver – Courtroom 13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone – Courtroom 14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J.
Mizerak – Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief
Magistrate, Victor Perez – City Prosecutor

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2011

Vol. 98

No. 5102

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2011
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT

1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Westbrook,
Vice Chair; Brady, Conwell, Dow,
Keane, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland, Keane, Polensek, Pruitt.

City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, K.
Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell, Sweeney,
Zone.

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2010-2013

Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Dow, Chair; Cleveland, Kelley, Miller, Sweeney.

MONDAY — Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Properties, and Recreation Committee: K.
Johnson, Chair; Conwell, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Dow, Polensek, Reed.
9:30 A.M. — Health and Human
Committee:
Cimperman,
Services
Chair; J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell, Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Dow, K. Johnson,
Keane, Polensek, Pruitt, Sweeney.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Dow, Interim Chair; K. Johnson,
Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cimperman,
Cleveland, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady, Brancatelli, Cleveland, Keane,
Miller, Mitchell, Polensek, Pruitt,
Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, September 19, 2011
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Conwell,
Cummins, Dow, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Miller, Mitchell,
Polensek,
Reed,
Sweeney,
Westbrook and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Monyka S. Price, Chief of
Education, Maureen Harper, Chief of
Communications, Andrea V. Taylor,
Press Secretary, Natoya J. WalkerMinor, Chief of Public Affairs –
Interim Director of Office of Equal
Opportunity, and Directors Dumas,
Rybka,
Southerington,
Griffin,
Brown, Lucille Ambroz, Secretary,
Civil Service Commission, and Teresa Stevenson, Legislative Affairs.

TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, J. Johnson, Miller,
Pruitt, Westbrook, Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action and Training Committee:
Mitchell,
Interim
Chair;
Miller, Vice Chair; Cummins, J.
Johnson, K. Johnson, Westbrook.
WEDNESDAY — Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation and Transportation Committee: Keane, Chair;
Pruitt, Vice Chair; Cummins, J. Johnson, K. Johnson, Kelley, Mitchell.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Polensek,
Vice Chair; Brady, Cleveland, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Mitchell, Zone.

Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
the opening prayer was offered by
Pastor Ronald Lee, of Calvary Congregational Church, 4424 Lee Road,
located in Ward 1. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Reed, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Cummins.
FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL

WEDNESDAY — Alternating

File No. 1319-11.
Re: #9041571 — C1 New Application – Trell Production, d.b.a. The
Goodie Shop, 3881 East 123rd Street.
(Ward 2) Received.

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Kelley, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Cummins, Dow, Miller, Polensek, Pruitt, Westbrook.

File No. 1320-11.
Re: #9604429 — D5, D6 Transfer
of Ownership Application – Wiggins
Investments, Inc., d.b.a. Sixth City

1527

Diner, 1st Floor n/side and basement rear, 1265 West 9th Street and
Patio. (Ward 3) Received.
File No. 1321-11.
Re: #16679280010 — D2 Transfer
of Ownership and Location Application –Compass Group USA, Inc.,
d.b.a. Pub at The Student Center, 1st
Floor and Walk / In Cooler and
Indoor Patio, 2121 Euclid Avenue,
Room 136 and Patio. (Ward 8)
Received.
File No. 1322-11.
Re: #16679280015 — D3 Transfer
of Ownership and Location Application –Compass Group USA, Inc.,
d.b.a. Elements Bistro on Euclid,
Suite 103 and Patio, 3200 Euclid
Avenue. (Ward 8) Received.
File No. 1323-11.
Re: #123852770005 — C2, Transfer
of Ownership and Location –East
40th Marathon, Inc. 3980 St. Clair
Avenue. (Ward 8) Received.
File No. 1324-11.
Re: #83556750005 — C1 New Application – Sofianos Enterprises, d.b.a.
Dimitris Restaurant, 10945 Lorain
Avenue. (Ward 17) Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1325-11—James L. Bowman.
Res.
No.
1326-11—Jay
Douglas
Gardner.
Res. No. 1327-11—Thomas F. Stanton.
Res. No. 1328-11—Kathryn “Kay”
McCafferty.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1329-11—Joseph & Patricia Calamante.
Res.
No.
1330-11—Retired/Retirable Irish Police Society.
Res.
No.
1331-11—Richard
F.
Clark.
Res. No. 1332-11—Lelia B. Tufts.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res.
No.
1333-11—All
Faiths
Pantry.
Res. No. 1334-11—Omega Psi Phi
Fraternity.
Res. No. 1335-11—Rev. Dr. Emmitt
Theophilus Caviness.
Res. No. 1336-11—Jimmy Bivins.

The City Record

4
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1291-11.
By Council Members K. Johnson,
Miller, Mitchell and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 551.111 and 551.991 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 697-10, passed August 18, 2010 and
Ordinance No. 707-11, passed June 6,
2011, relating to civil infractions for
waste collection.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 551.111
and 551.991 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 697-10,
passed August 18, 2010 and Ordinance No. 707-11, passed June 6, 2011,
are amended to read as follows:
Section 551.111 Setting Out an
Excessively Large Quantity of Waste
for Collection Prohibited; Applicability; Penalty
(a) No person shall set out for collection on a parcel’s tree lawn or other
designated place for collection a
quantity of solid waste exceeding 2
cubic yards but not exceeding 10
cubic yards in volume including special waste, if any, as described in Section 551.05.
(b) No person shall set out for collection on a parcel’s tree lawn or other
designated place for collection a
quantity of solid waste exceeding 10
cubic yards in volume including special waste, if any, as described in Section 551.05.
(c) Applicability. The offenses
established in this section are applicable without regard to whether the
offender:
(1) sets the waste out due to an
eviction, a house or garage cleanout,
or for any other reason;
(2) uses or intends to use a public or
private vendor or entity for its disposal;
(3) sets out the waste for the purpose of staging it for eventual disposal.
(d) Penalty. Any person who violates this section is liable for the civil
infraction established under Section
551.991 and is guilty of a special misdemeanor for which the maximum
penalty shall be $250.00.
Section 551.991 Civil Infractions
(a) Civil enforcement system established. The City of Cleveland hereby
adopts a civil enforcement system for
the infractions established by this
section. This civil enforcement system imposes monetary liability on the
responsible parties as defined in division (m).
In addition to any other means of
enforcement provided for in these
Codified Ordinances, each of the following sections may be enforced
through the issuance of a ticket to the
responsible parties as defined in division (m):
(1) Section 551.04, division (d),
relating to the early set out of waste.
(2) Section 551.04, division (e),
relating to failing to remove a waste
container after collection.
(3) Section 551.111, division (a) and
division (b), relating to excessively
large quantity of waste for collection.

(4) Section 551.041, division (a),
relating to automated waste collection and recycling infractions.
Any person who violates any of the
foregoing prohibitions has committed
an infraction for which liability is
imposed by division (b) upon the
responsible parties as defined in division (m).
(b) Liability imposed. Each owner
of a parcel at which an infraction has
occurred is liable to the City of Cleveland in the amounts established in
divisions (f) and (g).
(c) Noncriminal offense; no conviction. The infractions established by
this section are noncriminal. The
imposition of liability upon the
responsible parties under this section
shall not be deemed a conviction for
any purpose.
(d) Other costs and penalties not
abrogated. Nothing in this section
shall be construed as altering or limiting the effects of any other section
of these Codified Ordinances, the
criminal penalties imposed by any
such other section, or the ability of a
law enforcement officer to enforce
those sections.
(e) Tickets - service; contents. If a
violation of division (a) is observed
by an employee of the Division of
Waste Collection and Disposal or any
other City employee whose duties
include the enforcement of this section, then the Director of Public
Works shall cause the responsible
parties to be issued a ticket. The ticket shall be served by sending it via
regular U.S. mail, postage prepaid, to
the parcel owner(s) at the tax mailing address shown in the records of
the county recorder.
The date of mailing of the ticket
shall be deemed to be the date of
issuance of the ticket. If the mailing
is unreturned, then it shall establish
that the respondents were given actual or constructive notice of the imposition of liability under this section.
The ticket shall identify the parcel
owner(s) as respondents. The ticket
shall state that the respondents are
responsible parties for the commission of a civil infraction under this
section.
The ticket shall inform the respondents of the procedure to file an
appeal and the time frame for filing
it. The ticket shall state that failure
to appeal the ticket or pay the costs
imposed not later than 20 days from
the date of issuance of the ticket shall
constitute a waiver of the right to contest the ticket and shall be considered
an admission. The ticket shall further
state that if the ticket is not appealed
or paid in that time frame, then a
default finding of civil liability shall
be imposed upon respondents for the
costs established in divisions (f) and
(g).
The ticket may be in any format
that includes all of the elements
required by this section.
(f) Penalties established. The costs
imposed by this section upon the
responsible parties for the commission of an infraction contrary to division (a) shall be assessed in accordance with the following schedule:
Section
551.111, division (a)
551.111, division (b)
551.04, division (d)
551.04, division (e)
551.041, division (a)

1528

Civil Penalty
$250.00
$500.00
$100.00
$100.00
$100.00

September 21, 2011
The costs established by this section are imposed upon the responsible
parties both as civil penalties and to
reimburse the City for a portion of the
costs incurred by it in the enforcement of infractions, and for some
infractions, the increased costs of
solid waste disposal.
(g) Late penalties. Late penalties
shall be assessed in accordance with
the following schedule:
(1) If the costs established in division (f) remain unpaid (20) days after
the ticket is issued or (20) days after
the conclusion of all appeals, an additional $20.00 shall be assessed; and
(2) If the costs established in division (f) remain unpaid (40) days after
the ticket is issued or (40) days after
the conclusion of all appeals, an additional $40.00 shall be added to the
$20.00 assessed under division (g) (1)
for a total additional penalty of $60.00
in such a case.
(h) Appeals - timing. Any respondent or other person who is potentially liable for the costs imposed by this
section may appeal the imposition of
liability to the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee, which
may include the Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal Court in his capacity
as Parking Violations Bureau Administrator or otherwise, in the manner
described in the ticket. As used in
divisions (h), (i) and (j), of this section, “Director” means the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee.
The appeal shall be taken not later
than 20 days from the date of issuance
of the ticket. Failure to appeal the
ticket or pay the costs imposed within
this time period shall constitute a
waiver of the right to contest the ticket and shall be considered an admission.
(i) Appeal - process. The Director
shall establish an administrative
appeal process for persons to appeal
tickets issued under this section. The
administrative appeal process shall
allow the appellant the right to present appellant’s case in person and
may allow for evidence to be presented ex-parte. The strict rules of evidence applicable to courts of law
shall not apply in any administrative
hearing or ex-parte review. The ticket
charging the offense shall constitute
prima facia evidence that the offense
identified in the ticket occurred and
that the parcel owner(s) to whom the
ticket was mailed are the responsible
parties as defined in division (m) and
are liable to the City of Cleveland for
the costs imposed by this section.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that an appellant
is liable under this section for the
costs assessed, then the Director shall
dismiss the appeal and order the
appellant to pay the costs identified
in the ticket.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that an appellant
is liable under this section for the
costs assessed but that there are reasons for the commission of the infraction that mitigate the offense, then
the Director shall dismiss the appeal
and order the appellant to pay the
costs identified in the ticket, but may
in the interest of equity reduce the
costs assessed.
If the Director finds by a preponderance of evidence that the appellant is not liable under this section for
the costs assessed, then the Director
shall dismiss the ticket and grant the
appeal.

September 21, 2011
(j) Appeal of the Director’s decision. Any person subject to an
adverse decision of the Director may
appeal that decision to the Board of
Zoning Appeals. The notice of appeal
shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the Board of Zoning Appeals
within ten (10) days of the decision of
the
Director.
The
Board
shall
approve, modify or annul the finding
from which the appeal is taken.
(k) Collection. The costs imposed
by this section may be enforced and
collected by means of a civil action or
any other means provided for in these
Codified Ordinances or the Revised
Code.
(l) Rules and regulations. The
Director of Public Works may issue
rules and regulations to carry out the
provisions of these sections, which
shall be effective thirty (30) days
after their publication in the City
Record.
(m) Definitions. As used in this section:
(1) “Director” means the Director of
Public Works and in the case of
appeals, the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee.
(2) “Owner” or “parcel owner” mean
the person(s) shown in the records of
the county recorder as having legal
title to the parcel on which someone
has failed to adhere to division (a).
(3) “Person” includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership, and association.
[RC 1.59 (C)]
(4)
“Responsible
party”
and
“responsible parties” has the same
meaning as “owner” or “parcel
owner”.
Section 2. That existing Sections
551.111 and 551.991 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 697-10,
passed August 18, 2010 and Ordinance
No. 707-11, passed June 6, 2011, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Works, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Service, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1292-11.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into an agreement with Rock
Ohio Caesars, LLC and USA Parking
Systems to allow them to reline the
sewer on High Avenue, and to accept
the improvement as a gift to the City.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
enter into an agreement with Rock
Ohio Caesars, LLC and USA Parking
Systems to allow them to reline the
sewer on High Avenue, and to
accept the improvement, as a gift to
the City. The agreement shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure

The City Record
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1293-11.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of various
types of valves, actuators, and appurtenances, and labor and materials
necessary to maintain and repair various types of valves, actuators, and
appurtenances, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period up to two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for a period up to two
years of the necessary items of various types of valves, actuators, and
appurtenances, and labor and materials necessary to maintain various
of
valves,
actuators,
and
types
appurtenances, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
accounts and the Director of Finance
shall certify the amount of the initial
purchase, which purchase, together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. RQN 2002, RL 2011-41
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
The Director of Public Utilities may
sign all documents that are necessary
to make the purchases, and may enter
into one or more contracts with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the

1529

5
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1294-11.
By Council Members J. Johnson,
Brancatelli, Cleveland and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a Jobs
Ready Site grant from the Ohio
Department of Development Jobs
Ready Sites Program for the clean up
and
redevelopment
of
property
known as Building 42 located at 3615
Superior Avenue; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more contracts with consultants or one or more
firms of consultants to implement the
grant project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to apply for and accept a
Clean Ohio grant in an amount up
to $3,000,000, from the State of Ohio
Department of Development Jobs
Ready Sites Program for the clean
up and redevelopment of property
known as Building 42 located at
3615 Superior Avenue as described
in the executive summary below;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the executive
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below and in any
subsequent
grant
amendments,
which amendments will be filed
with Council.
Section 2. That the executive summary for the grant, File No. 1294-11-A,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council at
the public hearing on this legislation,
is approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more firms
of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to implement the grant project.
The selection of the consultants for
the services shall be made by the
Board of Control on the nomination of
the Director of Economic Development from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Economic Development for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
Section 4. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized will be
paid from the fund or subfunds that
are credited the proceeds of the grant
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirma-

The City Record

6
tive vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1304-11.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of East 1st Street and a portion of High Avenue S.E.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1099-11, adopted August 17, 2011, this
Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of East 1st Street and
a portion of High Avenue S.E.; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on the
abutting property owners affected by
the resolution which stated a time
and place when objections would be
heard before the Board of Revision of
Assessments; and
Whereas, on September 15, 2011, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating
a portion of the above and that it will
not be detrimental to the general
interest and that it should be made;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares
that
the
following
described real property is vacated:
EAST 1st STREET VACATION
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Original
Two Acre Lot No. 97 further described
as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of the
northerly line of High Avenue S.E.,
(46.36 feet wide), with the northeasterly line of Ontario Street (99 feet
wide); thence N 78° 25' 48" E, along
said northerly line of High Avenue
S.E., a distance of 61.42 feet to its
intersection with said westerly line of
East 1st Street, said intersection
being the principal point of beginning
of the vacation premises herein
intended to be described;

Course No. 1:
Thence N 11° 27' 00" W, along said
westerly line of East 1st Street, a distance of 77.50 feet to the northerly line
of the vacation being described herein;
Course No. 2:
Thence N 78° 33' 00" E, along said
northerly line of the vacation being
described herein, a distance of 10.00
feet to the easterly line of said East
1st Street;
Course No. 3:
Thence S 11° 27' 00" E, along said
easterly of East 1st Street, a distance
of 77.48 feet to the northerly line of
High Avenue S.E.;
Course No. 4:
Thence S 78° 25' 48" W, along said
northerly line of High Avenue, S.E. a
distance of 10.00 feet to its intersection with said westerly line of East
1st Street and the principal point of
beginning and containing 0.0178
acres (775 sq. ft.) of land according to
a survey by Garrett & Associates in
August, 2011, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways
and easements of record.
Bearings cited within the above
description are of an assumed meridian and are for the sole purpose of
determining angles.
Revised August 29, 2011
HIGH AVENUE S.E. VACATION
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Original
Two Acre Lot Nos. 97 and 98 and further described as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of the
easterly line of Ontario Street (99 feet
wide), with the Northerly line of High
Avenue S.E. (46.36 feet wide) said
intersection being the principal point
of beginning of the vacation premises
herein intended to be described;
Course No. 1:
Thence N 78° 25' 48" E, along said
northerly line of High Street, a distance of 185.25 feet to its intersection
with the westerly line of East 2nd
Street (50 feet wide);
Course No. 2:
Thence S 11° 34' 12" E, a distance of
46.36 feet to a point on the southerly
line of said High Avenue S.E.;
Course No. 3:
Thence S 78° 25' 48" W, along said
southerly line of High Avenue S.E., a
distance of 166.77 feet to its intersection with said easterly line of Ontario
Street;

September 21, 2011
Course No. 4:
Thence N 33° 18' 27" W, along said
easterly line of Ontario Street, a distance of 49.91 feet the principal point
of beginning and containing 0.1873
acres (8,160 sq. ft.) of land according
to a survey by Garrett and Associates
in May, 2011 be the same more or less
but subject to all legal highways and
easements of record.
Bearings cited within the above
description are of an assumed meridian and are for the sole purpose of
determining angles.
The intent of this description is to
vacate High Avenue S.E. from the
easterly line of Ontario Street to the
westerly line of East 2nd Street.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2.That there is reserved to
the City of Cleveland an easement of
full width as described above for
Water Pollution Control, the Illuminating Company (CEI) and the Water
Department.
That no structures shall be erected
on the premises described in this easement except those constructed under
the approval of, and in compliance
with, plans approved by Water Pollution Control, the Illuminating Company (CEI) and the Water Department
and the City of Cleveland.
Section
3.
That
provided
all
required
approvals
have
been
obtained, the Manager of Engineering and Construction is directed to
record the vacation plat in the office
of the Recorder of Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the portion of East
1st Street extending south from
Prospect Avenue to the vacation be
restricted to pedestrian use only. This
restriction shall be considered a regulation under Section 403.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, and the appropriate signs shall
be erected. The requirements for the
adoption of regulations under Section
403.03 are considered fulfilled by the
adoption and publication of this ordinance and no further notice or publication is required.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
ordinance to the Fiscal Officer of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Capital
Projects, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1305-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance to change the Use District of land located on the south side of Miles Avenue between E. 93rd Street and
Broadway Avenue to a Multi-Family Residential District (Map Change No. 2372, Sheet Number 6).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Broadway Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of E. 93rd Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 93rd Street to its intersection with the centerline of Broadway Avenue
S.E.;

1530

September 21, 2011

The City Record

7

Thence northwesterly along said centerline of Broadway Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Miles
Avenue and the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Multi-Family Residential District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2372
Sheet No. 6 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

Ord. No. 1306-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height District of land located on the north and south sides of Miles Avenue
between E. 114th Street and E. 138th Street as shown shaded on the attached maps to Local Retail Business, ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District (Map Change No. 2376, Sheet Numbers 10).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of East 114th Street at its intersection with the centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence northerly along said centerline of East 114th Street to its intersection with the southerly line of a parcel of land
conveyed to Rhonda Martin by deed dated August 7, 2007 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200708070260, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 136-19-076;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
E. 116th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 116th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Alfred Taylor by deed dated October 1, 2001 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200110010808, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 138-13-002;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to Aneathia Ellis (1/3) by deed dated February 11, 1988 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V8880573068, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 138-13-067;

1531

8

The City Record

September 21, 2011

Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of E. 116 Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of E. 116th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
southerly line of Sublot Number 163 in the Miles Avenue 2nd (Hills & Frisbie) shown on the recorded plat in Volume 24,
Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of E. 114th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of E. 114th Street and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly line of the Fowler & Corlett Re-Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 24, Page 12 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line of
Sublot Number 217 in the aforementioned Fowler & Corlett Re-Subdivision;
Thence southeasterly along said southerly line and along its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of E. 123rd Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of E. 123rd Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
southerly line of Sublot Number 252 in the aforementioned Fowler & Corlett Re-Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation of said southerly line and continuing along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly line of Sublot Number 29 in the Fowler Critchley & Corlett Subdivision shown
on the recorded plat in Volume 13, Page 10 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the northerly
line of Sublot Number 32 in the aforementioned Fowler Critchley & Corlett Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said northerly line of Sublot Number 32 and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of E. 127th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of E. 127th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
southerly line of Sublot Number 203 in the aforementioned Fowler Critchely & Corlett Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said southerly line to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot Number 198 in the aforementioned Fowler Critchely & Corlett Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of
the aforementioned Sublot Number 203;
Thence easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of Sublot Number 195 in the aforementioned Fowler Critchley & Corlett Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly line
of Sublot Number 185 in the aforementioned Fowler Critchley & Corlett Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line thereof;
Thence easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with a line drawn 40 feet from and parallel to the easterly line of Sublot Number 186 in the aforementioned Fowler Critchley & Corlett Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the centerline of Marston Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Marston Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot Number 169 in the aforementioned Fowler Critchley & Corlett Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said westerly line through the intersection of Ferris Avenue
to its intersection with the centerline of Harvard Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Harvard Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot Number 79 in the Ford Morgan & Frisbie Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 24,
Page 5 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said westerly line and continuing along its southerly prolongation through its intersection with the centerline of Ferris Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Marston
Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Marston Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
easterly line of Sublot Number 1 in the Corlett Homestead Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 43, Page 22
of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its
intersection with the southerly line of Sublot Number 19 in the aforementioned Corlett Homestead Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation through its intersection with the centerlines of E. 135th Street and E. 136th Street to its intersection with the westerly line of the Brockett Subdivision shown
on the recorded plat in Volume 41, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line of Sublot Number 4 in the aforementioned Brockett Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
E. 138th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 138th Street and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with main line of the Erie Rail Road;
Thence southeasterly along said Erie Rail Road main line to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation of
the westerly line of Sublot Number 38 in the Miles Corlett Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 43, Page 25
of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southwesterly along said northeasterly prolongation of said westerly line and along its southwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Cain Avenue;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of Caine Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot Number 83 in the Miles-Corlett Subdivision shown on the Recorded Plat in Volume 43, Page 25 in
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line
of Sublot Number 46 in the aforementioned Miles-Corlett Subdivision;
Thence northwesterly along said southerly line and along its northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of E. 131st Street;

1532

September 21, 2011

The City Record

9

Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 131st Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
southerly line of Sublot Number 8 in the Frank Hlavin Subdivision shown on the Recorded Plat in Volume 50, Page 28 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of E. 130th Street;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot Number 1 in the Barriball Subdivision Not Recorded, said parcel also being known
as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 138-16-005;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line
thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the easterly
prolongation of the southerly line of Sublot Number 128 in the Miles-Corlett Allotment No. 2 shown on the Recorded Plat
in Volume 46, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said southerly line and continuing along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of E. 128th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of E. 128th Street and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to the principal place of beginning;
and shaded on the attached maps are changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2376,
Sheet No. 10 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1533

10

The City Record

September 21, 2011

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1307-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance to change the Use District of lands bounded by Meech Avenue, Cassius Avenue, Erie Rail Road and Harvard Avenue to Semi-Industry (Map Change No. 2378, Sheet Numbers 6 & 10).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of E. 93rd Street at its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the centerline of
Meech Avenue;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the easterly line of Vacated E. 105 Place;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation to its intersection with the southerly line of Sublot Number 409 in
the James M. & Colgate Hoyt Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 4, Page 27 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence easterly along said southerly line of Sublot Number 409 and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection
with the westerly line of Sublot Number 15 in the Mars – Wagar Realty Co. Subdivision Not Recorded, said parcel also
being known as Cuyahoga County Permanent Parcel Number 136-11-001;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Avon Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Avon Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot Number 7 in the aforementioned Mars-Wagar Realty Co. Subdivision Not Recorded,
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line
thereof;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
E. 116th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 116th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the centerline of Harvard Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Harvard Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Jerit CS Fund 1 LLC by deed dated July 9 2007 and recorded in Auditor’s File
Number 200707090168, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 138-08-003;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of the Erie Rail Road;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of the Erie Rail Road to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of
the centerline of Harvard Avenue;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said centerline of Harvard Avenue to its intersection with the
westerly line of the Wheeling and Lake Erie Rail Road;
Thence northwesterly along said westerly line of said Wheeling and Lake Erie Rail Road to its intersection with the
easterly prolongation of the centerline of Cassius Avenue;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation of said centerline to its intersection with the southerly prolongation
of the westerly line of Sublot Number 4 in the Olive A. Meech Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 4, Page
24 of Cuyahoga County Map Records (PPN 136-07-049);

1534

September 21, 2011

The City Record

11

Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Meech Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Meech Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of E. 93rd Street and the
principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Semi-Industry District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2378,
Sheet Numbers 6 & 10 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the
Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this
purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1535

12

The City Record

September 21, 2011

Ord. No. 1308-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance to change the Use District of lands located on the west side of E. 116th Street (Martin Luther King Jr.
Dr.) between Corlett Avenue and Dove Avenue to Local Retail Business (Map Change No. 2375, Sheet Numbers 10).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Corlett Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of E. 116 Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 116th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Dove Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Dove Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot Number 37 in the Fairview Park Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 64, Page 18 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said easterly line and continuing along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Nelson Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Nelson Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot Number 3 in the aforementioned Fairview Park Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line of
Sublot 33 in the F.J. Bowman Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 94, Page 39 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence easterly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of Sublot Number 35 in the aforementioned F.J. Bowman Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said westerly line of Sublot Number 35 and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Matilda Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot
Number 2 in the aforementioned F.J. Bowman Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Prince Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Prince Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot Number 158 in the Home Gardens Subdivision Not Recorded; said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 135-21-035;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said westerly line and continuing along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Corlett Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Corlett Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of E. 116th Street and
the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2375,
Sheet No. 10 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1536

September 21, 2011

The City Record

13

Ord. No. 1309-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands located on the south side of Miles Avenue between
E. 116th Street and E. 128th Street to Two Family Residential, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District as shown shaded on the attached maps(Map Change No. 2379, Sheet Number 10).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of E. 116th Street at its intersection with the centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the centerline of E. 119th Street;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said centerline of E. 119th Street to its intersection with the
westerly prolongation of the centerline of Minor Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Minor Avenue and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the
westerly line of Sublot Number 62 in the J.M. Hoyt and Son Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 11, Page 8
of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Miles Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of E. 128th Street;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said centerline of E. 128th Street and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Beachwood Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Beachwood Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Martin Luther
King Jr. Drive;
Thence northerly along said centerline of Martin Luther King Jr. Drive to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Robertson Avenue;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said centerline to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot Number 25 in the Bishop-Hoyt Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 64,
Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of
a parcel of land conveyed to Aneathia Ellis (1/3) by deed dated February 11, 1988 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
V8880573068, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 138-13-067;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to
Alfred Taylor by deed dated October 1, 2001 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200110010808, said parcel also being
known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 138-13-002;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Miles Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of E. 116th Street and the
principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Two Family Residential District, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2379,
Sheet No. 10 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1537

14

The City Record

September 21, 2011

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1310-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands located along Miles Park Avenue, Harvard
Avenue, E. 93rd Street and E. 91st Street as shown shaded on the attached map to a Two Family Residential, a ‘B’ Area
District and ‘1’ Height District (Map Change No. 2373, Sheet Numbers 6).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Cannon Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of E. 91st Street;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Cannon Avenue and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with
the centerline of East 93rd Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of East 93rd Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the centerline of Gaylord Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Gaylord Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot Number 22 in the Lucy M. Gaylord Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 3, Page 48
of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said prolongation and said westerly line and continuing along its southerly prolongation to
its intersection with the centerline of Pratt Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Pratt Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Salvation Army by deed dated November 29, 1984 and recorded in Auditor’s File
Number V84456680040, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 136-13-015;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said easterly line and continuing along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the southerly line of Sublot Number 6 in the Allen Gaylord Estate Subdivision shown on
the recorded plat in Volume 3, Page 40 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of East 93rd Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of East 93rd Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Cleveland Housing Network Inc. by deed dated September 20, 1991 and
recorded in Auditor’s File Number V91160880016, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel
Number 134-08-061;
Thence westerly along said prolongation and said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line there of;
Thence northwesterly and northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
southerly line of Sublot Number 63 in the Newburgh Village Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 2, Page
20;

1538

September 21, 2011

The City Record

15

Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said southerly line and continuing along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly line of Sublot Number 68 in the aforementioned Newburgh village Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot Number 26 in the Newburgh Village Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 2, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southwesterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed
to Ohio Grand Council-Cleveland District by deed dated March 6th 1992 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
V92216690025, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 134-08-022;
Thence northwesterly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Miles Park Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Miles Park Avenue to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the southwesterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to the Cornerstone Missionary Baptist Church by deed dated
January 8, 1988, and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V8880094044 said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s
Permanent Parcel Number 134-06-043;
Thence northwesterly along said southeasterly prolongation of said southwesterly line to its intersection with the
northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Paladin Professional Sound by deed dated July 9, 2001 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200107100078, said
parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 134-06-048;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
East 91st Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of East 91st Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Walker Avenue;
Thence westerly and southwesterly along said centerline to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot Number 16 in the Mull & Walker Re-allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 7, Page 24 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northwesterly along said prolongation and said westerly line to its intersection with the southeasterly right
of way line of the New York Central Railroad;
Thence northeasterly along said southeasterly line to its intersection with the centerline of Harvard Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Harvard Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of E. 91st Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of E. 91st Street to its intersection with the centerline of Cannon Avenue and
the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Two Family Residential District, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height
District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2373,
Sheet No. 6 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1539

16

The City Record

September 21, 2011

Ord. No. 1311-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance to change the Use and Area Districts of lands located on the east side of E. 131 Street from Melzer Avenue
to Svec Avenue to a Local Retail Business District and a ‘B’ Area District (Map Change No. 2381, Sheet Numbers 10).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Melzer Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of E. 131st Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of E. 131st Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the
southerly line of Sublot Number 44 in the Below Partition D. B. subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 558,
Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation and said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line
thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Melzer Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Melzer Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot Number 141 in the Bartlett Homestead Subdivision Number 2 shown on the recorded plat in Volume 52,
Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation
through its intersection with the centerline of Bartlett Avenue to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot Number 4 in the aforementioned Bartlett Homestead Subdivision Number 2;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Svec Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Svec Avenue and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of E. 131st Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of E. 131st Street to the principal place of beginning;
and shaded on the attached maps are changed to a Local Retail Business District and a ‘B’ Area District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2381,
Sheet No. 10 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1540

September 21, 2011

The City Record

17

Ord. No. 1312-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance to change the Use District of land located on the north and south sides of E. 99th Street at Miles Avenue
from Semi-Industry to Two Family Residential (Map Change No. 2371, Sheet Numbers 10).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Miles Avenue at its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of E.
99th Street;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of the W.M Cowley Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 24, Page 24 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line
thereof;
Thence westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Miles Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of E. 99th Street;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Two Family Residential District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2371,
Sheet No. 10 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1541

18

The City Record

September 21, 2011

Ord. No. 1313-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands on the east and west sides of John P. Green Place
at Harvard Avenue to One Family Residential, an ‘A’ Area District and a ‘1’ Height District (Map Change No. 2377, Sheet
Number 10).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Harvard Avenue at its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of
John P. Green Place;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Harvard Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot Number 235 of the Fowler & Corlett Re-subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 24, Page
12 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said westerly line of Sublot Number 235 and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the main line of the Erie Rail Road;
Thence northwesterly along said main line to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the easterly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to Jerit CS Fund 1 LLC by deed dated July 9 2007 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
200707090168, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 138-08-003;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said easterly line, continuing along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Harvard Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Harvard Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of John P. Green Place and the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2377,
Sheet No. 10 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1542

September 21, 2011

The City Record

19

Ord. No. 1314-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands located along Miles Avenue, Broadway Avenue
and E. 93rd Street as shown shaded on the attached maps to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and ‘2’
Height District (Map Change No. 2374, Sheet Number 6).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Broadway Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of E. 93rd Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of E. 93rd St. to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the centerline of Way Avenue;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation of said centerline to its intersection with the northerly prolongation
of the westerly line of Sublot Number 41 in the Arial Harris Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 11, Page
55 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation and said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line
of Sublot Number 2 in the aforementioned Arial Harris Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Reno Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Reno Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot Number 1 in the aforementioned Arial Harris Subdivision;
Thence southerly along said prolongation of said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot Number 12 in the Leo W. Sapp Re-Survey shown on the recorded plat in Volume 12, Page 25 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Elizabeth Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Elizabeth Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
easterly line of Sublot Number 19 in the aforementioned Leo W. Sapp Re-Survey;
Thence southerly along said northerly prolongation of said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Nelson Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Nelson Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot Number 7 in the J.M. Hoyt Re-Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 4, Page 26 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said prolongation of said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Meech Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Meech Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of E. 93rd Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 93rd St. to its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the centerline of Gaylord Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Gaylord Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot Number 15 in the Lucy M. Gaylord subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 3, Page 48
of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line
thereof;
Thence easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to the
City of Cleveland by deed dated October 22, 1997 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V97108840003, said parcel also
being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 136-13-057;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Harvard Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Harvard Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of E. 93rd Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 93rd Street to its intersection with the centerline of Miles Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly line of Sublot Number 74 in the Newburgh Village Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 2, Page 20;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line of
Sublot Number 63 in the aforementioned Newburgh Village Subdivision;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly
line of Sublot Number 68 in the aforementioned Newburgh Village Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot Number 26 in the Newburgh Village Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 2, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southwesterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed
to Ohio Grand Council-Cleveland District by deed dated March 6th 1992 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
V92216690025, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 134-08-022;
Thence northwesterly along said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of Miles Park Avenue;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Miles Park Avenue to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the southwesterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to the Cornerstone Missionary Baptist Church by deed dated
January 8, 1988, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 134-06-043;
Thence northwesterly along said southeasterly prolongation of said southwesterly line to its intersection with the
northwesterly line thereof;
Thence northeasterly along said northwesterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Paladin Professional Sound by deed dated July 9, 2001 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number 200107100078, said
parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 134-06-048;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
East 91st Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of East 91st Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of Walker Avenue;
Thence westerly and southwesterly along said centerline of Walker Avenue and along its southwesterly prolongation
to its intersection with the centerline of Broadway Avenue;

1543

20

The City Record

September 21, 2011

Thence southeasterly along said centerline of Broadway Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of Miles
Avenue and the principal place of beginning.
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2374,
Sheet No. 6 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

1544

September 21, 2011

The City Record

21

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.
Ord. No. 1315-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance to change the Use and Area Districts of lands located on the north and south sides of Harvard Avenue
between E. 136th Street and E. 141st Street to a Local Retail Business District and a ‘B’ Area District (Map Change No.
2380, Sheet Numbers 10).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Miles Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of E. 136 Street;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Miles Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the centerline of E. 139th Street;
Thence continuing northerly in a straight line along said northerly prolongation to its intersection with the southerly line of the Mars Hill Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 27, Page 24 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence easterly along said southerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
E. 141st Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 141st Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the
southerly line of Sublot Number 105 in the Stanly Heights Allotment shown on the recorded plat in Volume 16, Page 23
of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said easterly prolongation and said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of
the Brockett Addition subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume61, Page 40 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the northerly line of Sublot Number 97 in the aforementioned Brockett Addition;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation through its intersection with the centerline of E. 139th Street and E. 138th Street to its intersection with the westerly line of the Brockett subdivision shown
on the recorded plat in Volume 41, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence northerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the southerly line of Sublot Number 110 in the Ford,
Morgan & Frisbie subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 24, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation through its intersection with the centerline of E. 136 Street to its intersection with the westerly line of Sublot Number 84 in the aforementioned Ford, Morgan
& Frisbie subdivision;
Thence northerly along said westerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline
of Harvard Avenue;

1545

22

The City Record

September 21, 2011

Thence easterly along said centerline of Harvard Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot Number 138 in the aforementioned Ford, Morgan & Frisbie subdivision;
Thence northerly along said southerly prolongation and said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line
thereof;
Thence easterly along said northerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of
E. 136th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of E. 136th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Harvard Avenue and
the principal place of beginning;
and shaded on the attached maps are changed to a Local Retail Business District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No. 2380,
Sheet No. 10 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose
by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1546

The City Record

September 21, 2011
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 1295-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution authorizing the City of Cleveland to offer to
pick-up all or part of the voluntary
contributions through a payroll
deduction for the purchase of service
credit by employees of the Division of
Police who are members of the Ohio
Police & Fire Pension Fund.
Whereas, eligible employees of the
City of Cleveland Division of Police
(“Division of Police”) participate in
the Ohio Police and Fire Pension
Fund (“OP&F”); and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
desires to offer a pick-up for the voluntary purchase of service credit, as
provided for in Section 742.56 of the
Ohio Revised Code and 742-5-08 of the
Ohio Administrative Code, for participating employees of the Division of
Police who are members of the OP&F;
and
Whereas, OP&F has adopted procedures for reporting picked-up contributions in order to properly prepare
1099-R forms for its members under
Section 742.32 of the Ohio Revised
Code and Section 742-7-14 of the Ohio
Administrative Code; and
Whereas, employers may pay all or
a part of the voluntary contributions
for the purchase of service credit for
employees participating in the OP&F;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, effective as of the
adoption of this resolution, the City
of Cleveland desires to offer to pickup all or part of the voluntary contributions through a payroll deduction for the purchase of service credit by employees of the Division of
Police who are members of the
OP&F. No contributions made prior
to the adoption of this resolution
shall be picked-up.
Section 2. That the picked-up contributions paid through a payroll reduction, even though designated as
employee contributions for state law
purposes, are being paid by the City
of Cleveland in lieu of contributions
by the employee.
Section 3. That the pickup treatment does not apply to contributions
made prior to the later of the date this
resolution is signed or effective.
Section 4. That the employees shall
not be entitled to any option of choos-

ing
to
receive
the
contributed
amounts directly instead of having
them paid by the City of Cleveland to
the OP&F.
Section 5. That the employees must
an
Irrevocable
Payroll
execute
Deduction Authorization form in
order to have this pick-up treatment
apply and that the Division of Police
must certify the authorization under
Ohio Administrative Code 742-5-08.
Section 6. That picked-up contributions will not be included in the gross
income of the employees for tax
reporting purposes, that is, for federal
or state income tax withholding
taxes, until distributed from the
OP&F.
Section 7. That picked-up contributions will be included in the gross
income of the employees, for employment tax purposes, if required, as the
contributions are made to the OP&F.
Section 8. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Res. No. 1296-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution authorizing the City of Cleveland to offer to
pick-up all or part of the voluntary
contributions through a payroll
deduction for the purchase of service
credit by employees of the Division of
Fire who are members of the Ohio
Police & Fire Pension Fund.
Whereas, eligible employees of the
City of Cleveland Division of Fire
(“Division of Fire”) participate in the
Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund
(“OP&F”); and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
desires to offer a pick-up for the voluntary purchase of service credit, as
provided for in Section 742.56 of the
Ohio Revised Code and 742-5-08 of the
Ohio Administrative Code, for participating employees of the Division of
Fire who are members of the OP&F;
and
Whereas, OP&F has adopted procedures for reporting picked-up contributions in order to properly prepare
1099-R forms for its members under
Section 742.32 of the Ohio Revised
Code and Section 742-7-14 of the Ohio
Administrative Code; and
Whereas, employers may pay all or
a part of the voluntary contributions

23
for the purchase of service credit for
employees participating in the OP&F;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, effective as of the
adoption of this resolution, the City
of Cleveland desires to offer to pickup all or part of the voluntary contributions through a payroll deduction for the purchase of service credit by employees of the Division of
Fire who are members of the OP&F.
No contributions made prior to the
adoption of this resolution shall be
picked-up.
Section 2. That the picked-up contributions paid through a payroll reduction, even though designated as
employee contributions for state law
purposes, are being paid by the City
of Cleveland in lieu of contributions
by the employee.
Section 3. That the pickup treatment does not apply to contributions
made prior to the later of the date this
resolution is signed or effective.
Section 4. That the employees shall
not be entitled to any option of choosto
receive
the
contributed
ing
amounts directly instead of having
them paid by the City of Cleveland to
the OP&F.
Section 5. That the employees must
an
Irrevocable
Payroll
execute
Deduction Authorization form in
order to have this pick-up treatment
apply and that the Division of Fire
must certify the authorization under
Ohio Administrative Code 742-5-08.
Section 6. That picked-up contributions will not be included in the gross
income of the employees for tax
reporting purposes, that is, for federal
or state income tax withholding
taxes, until distributed from the
OP&F.
Section 7. That picked-up contributions will be included in the gross
income of the employees, for employment tax purposes, if required, as the
contributions are made to the OP&F.
Section 8. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES READ IN FULL AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1289-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make additional appropriations of Three Hundred Thousand ($300,000) of Enterprise Funds.
Whereas, there remains an unappropriated balance in the various funds, the sum of Three Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($300,000) which is available for additional appropriation; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That there is hereby appropriated the additional revenue as set forth in the Amended Official Certificate of Estimated Resources previously unappropriated as follows:

1547

The City Record

24

September 21, 2011

ENTERPRISE FUND

$300,000
_________
$300,000

TOTAL ALL FUNDS
ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION AND PROPERTIES
Convention Center
II
Other

$300,000
$300,000

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION AND PROPERTIES

$300,000

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUND

$300,000

TOTAL ALL FUNDS

$300,000

Section 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1290-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to provide for the transfer and amendment to the Restricted Income appropriations
within the Special Revenue Fund in the amount of Six Thousand Three Hundred Eighty-Five Dollars ($6,385) in
order to reflect the revised beginning unencumbered cash balance.
Whereas, in accordance with Section 41 of the Charter, the Mayor has recommended in writing the within transfer; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That amendment to the Restricted Income Tax appropriations in the amount of Six Thousand Three
Hundred Eighty-Five Dollars ($6,385) within the Special Revenue Fund be transferred as follows:
Transfer
To

Transfer
From

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND
Restricted Income Tax Fund
I
Capital

$ -

$6,385

TOTAL SPECIAL REVENUE FUND

$ -

$6,385

Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 1297-11.
By Council Member Pruitt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Department of
Community Development to enter into
an agreement with Mt. Pleasant Community Zone for the Community
Empowerment Mobilization Program
through the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be authorized to enter into an
agreement with Mt. Pleasant Community Zone for the Community
Empowerment Mobilization Program
for the public purpose of providing
community support to improve the
safety and quality of life for resi-

dents residing in the city of Cleveland through the use of Ward 1
Neighborhood Capital Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be in an amount not to
exceed $25,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 177.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare and approve said contract and that the contract shall contain such terms and provisions as he
deems necessary to protect the City’s
interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.

1548

The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1298-11.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to consent to the assignment
of Contract No. 54918 with Rialto Corporation to P & M Ohio City LLC, or its
designee; and authorizing the director to enter into an amendment to the
assigned contract regarding certain
terms.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 73699, passed June 14, 1999, this Council
authorized the Director of Economic
Development to enter into Contract
No. 54918 with the Rialto Corporation
to provide a Urban Development
Action Grant (“UDAG”) Repayments

September 21, 2011
Loan to assist in the acquisition and
rehabilitation of land and building,
located at 1867-1873 West 25th Street
and for related costs; and
Whereas, Rialto Corporation is
willing to allow P & M Ohio City LLC,
or its designee to assume the obligations of Contract No. 54918; and
Whereas, Rialto has requested consent of the City to the assignment of
the Contract to P & M Ohio City LLC,
or its designee; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to consent to the request of
Rialto Corporation to assign the
obligation of Contract No. 54918 to P
& M Ohio City LLC, or its designee.
Section 2. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 54918, assigned under this ordinance to P & M Ohio City LLC, or its
designee, containing the following
terms:
a. To extend the term of Contract
No. 54918 to December 31, 2031;
b. Reduce the interest rate from
5.81% to 3%;
c. Accept personal guarantees
and/or collateral as determined by
the CCDC Loan Review committee
and Board of Trustees and/or the
Director of Economic Development;
d. Collateral position to be subordinate to a bank or other lending institution.
Section 3. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
execute all documents and do all
things necessary and appropriate to
effect the consent to the assignment
and amendments authorized by this
legislation. A copy of the assignment
shall be filed in the office of the Commissioner of Accounts.
Section 4. That the Executive Summary presented to the Finance Committee is placed in File No. 1298-11-A.
Section 5. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1300-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance changing
the name of “East 110th Harvard
Park” located between East 108th and
East 110th Streets on Harvard Avenue
to “Oleatha Wilson Park.”
Whereas, Mrs. Oleatha Wilson lived
on East 108th Street for 42 years and
now lives in Mayfield Heights; and
Whereas, Mrs. Wilson was a community activist who organized street
clubs for the Precinct Committee and
served at a presiding judge at voting
locations for 26 years; and

The City Record
Whereas, Mrs. Wilson gathered the
necessary petition signatures to form
“East 110th Harvard Park” as a playground for children in the neighborhood after a child had been in a hitand-run accident on the street by the
then vacant lot; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure for the immediate preservation of public peace,
property, health or safety, now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of “East
110th
Harvard
Park”
located
between East 108th and East 110th
Streets
on
Harvard
Avenue
be
changed to “Oleatha Wilson Park”,
and that the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is authorized and directed to take the necessary action to affect said name
change and to post the proper signs
at the park.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1301-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance naming
the lot on the corner of Warner Road
and Tioga Avenue in Ward 2 “Mill
Creek Falls Family Park”.
Whereas, the Connecticut Block
Club has been working on the lot at
the corner of Warner Road and Tioga
Avenue in Ward 2 in an effort to make
it into a City Park; and
Whereas, the Connecticut Block
Club passed a motion to name the
Park “Mill Creek Falls Family Park
in April 2011; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure for the immediate preservation of public peace,
property, health or safety, now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the lot located on
the corner of Warner Road and
Tioga Avenue in Ward 2 be named
“Mill Creek Falls Family Park”, and
that the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is authorized
and directed to take the necessary
action to assign said name and to
post the proper signs at the park.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.

1549

25
Ord. No. 1302-11.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 154.04 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1957-2000,
passed November 13, 2000, relating to
meetings and attendance of the City
Audit Committee.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 154.04 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1957-2000, passed November 13, 2000, is amended to read as
follows:
Section 154.04 Meetings and Attendance
The City Audit Committee shall
meet at least three (3) times during
each calendar year and as many additional times as the majority of members deems necessary in the offices of
the Department of Finance at such
time as it shall decide. All meetings
of the City Audit Committee shall be
public. The Chair, however, may hold
executive sessions in accordance with
the provisions of the Ohio Revised
Code. A simple majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. Any member
who is absent from three consecutive
duly-called
meetings
shall
be
removed by the Chair from the City
Audit Committee. In the event that a
vacancy occurs during the term of
any member, the appropriate appointing authority shall name a successor
to serve the unexpired term.
The
members of the City Audit Committee
may request that members of the
other departments of the City be present at the meetings, as well as representatives of the independent auditor.
The City Audit Committee shall keep
minutes of its meetings, a copy of
which shall be kept on file and available for public inspection with the
Clerk of Council.
Section 2. That existing Section
154.04 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance
No.
1957-2000,
passed
November 13, 2000, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1303-11
By Council Members J. Johnson and
Reed.
An emergency ordinance designating that portion of Tacoma Avenue
from East 105th Street east to Parkwood
Drive
as
“Rev.
Dr.
E.
Theophilus Caviness Way ” as a secondary and honorary designation.
Whereas, it is most fitting and
appropriate to recognize Rev. Dr. E.
Theophilus Caviness for his 50 years

The City Record

26
of dedicated service to the citizens of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, Rev. Dr. Caviness has
been the Pastor of Greater Abyssnia
Baptist Church since 1961 and has
also served as a Councilman in Cleveland City Council from 1974 to 1980;
and
Whereas, Rev. Dr. Caviness has had
a long and successful involvement in
the fight for Civil Rights having
served as past Chair of the Ohio Civil
Rights Commission and presently as
President of the Cleveland Chapter of
the Southern Christian Leadership
Conference. On January 6, 2012 Rev.
Dr. Caviness will be inducted into the
International Civil Rights Walk of
Fame in Atlanta, Georgia; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Tacoma Avenue
from East 105th Street east to Parkwood
Drive
as
“Rev.
Dr.
E.
Theophilus Caviness Way” changed
as a secondary and honorary designation, and that the Director of Public Works is authorized and directed to make the necessary action to
assign said name and to post the
proper signs at East 105th Street.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately on
its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1299-11.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Cimperman, Kelley, Sweeney, Miller,
Brady, Brancatelli, J. Johnson, Westbrook, Mitchell, Conwell, Dow, Zone
and Reed.
An emergency resolution recognizing the month of October as a month
dedicated to educating our community on the importance of health literacy and further recognizing the first
statewide conference on Health Literacy to be held on October 11-13, 2011
by the Institute for Health Literacy at
St. Vincent Charity Medical Center.
Whereas, health literacy is the
capacity to obtain, process, and
understand basic health information
and services allowing individuals to
make appropriate health decisions;
and
Whereas, according to the Institute
of Medicine report titled Health Literacy: A Prescription to End Confusion,
nearly half of all American adults - 90
million people - have difficulty understanding and using health information; and
Whereas, persons with limited
health literacy skills have higher utilization of treatment services such as
hospitalization and emergency services and lower utilization of preventive services; and

Whereas, health literacy is a
stronger predictor of a person’s
health than age, income, employment
status, education level and race; and
Whereas, approximately half of all
Medicare/Medicaid recipients and 20
percent of all American adults read at
or below the fifth grade level, yet
most health information materials
are written at the tenth grade level or
above; and
Whereas, 81 percent of patients age
60 and older have difficulty comprehending medical instructions such as
prescription labels; and
Whereas, this Council recognizes
the Institute for Health Literacy at St.
Vincent Charity Medical Center for
its outstanding leadership and service in educating healthcare professionals, community engagement leaders, and the general populace on the
importance of health literacy in the
delivery of health care; and
Whereas, this Council understands
the importance of Healthy Cleveland
and its efforts to advance programs,
educational opportunities, and services that improve the health and
health literacy of the residents of the
City; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council recognizes the month of October as a
month dedicated to educating our
community on the importance of
health literacy and further recognizes the first statewide conference
on Health Literacy to be held on
October 11-13, 2011 by the Institute
for Health Literacy at St. Vincent
Charity Medical Center.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit copies of this
resolution to the appropriate persons
at the Institute for Health Literacy at
St. Vincent Charity Medical Center.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1316-11.
By Council Member Miller.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 12307 St.
Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Food Xpress & Gas, Inc.,
DBA Gas USA, 12307 St. Clair Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent
Number 2805847; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and

1550

September 21, 2011
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Food Xpress &
Gas, Inc., DBA Gas USA, 12307 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent
Number
2805847;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1317-11.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 3881
East 123rd Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Trell Production, DBA The
Goodie Shop, 3881 East 123rd Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 9041571; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high

September 21, 2011
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Trell Production,
DBA The Goodie Shop, 3881 East
123rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent
Number
9041571;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
Res. No. 1318-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C2 Liquor Permit at 5110
Clark Avenue & Drive Up Window.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C2 Liquor
Permit at Clark Petroleum, LLC, 5110
Clark Avenue & Drive Up Window,

The City Record
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 15255190005; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Clark Petroleum,
LLC, 5110 Clark Avenue & Drive Up
Window, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent Number 15255190005; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 798-11.
By Council Members Miller, Kelley,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).

1551

27
An ordinance to provide for the consideration of Complete and Green
Street elements in all construction
projects within the public right-ofway.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Public Utilities, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committees on Public
Utilities, City Planning. Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Health and Human Services,
and
Transportation,
Aviation
Finance, Sustainability Sub-Committee, when amended, as follows:
1. In Section 5, line 2, strike “all
effected
City
Departments
to
review” and insert “representatives
of all effected City Departments,
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District, Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority, and the Northeast
Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency
to review the improvement and
any”; and at the end of the section
add the following new sentence:
“The Director of Capital Projects
shall provide notice of all exemption
requests to the City Council member
or members whose ward or wards
includes
a
project
seeking
an
exemption.”.
2. Insert new Sections 8 and 9 to
read as follows:
“Section 8.
That the Director of
Capital Projects shall provide an
annual progress report to Council on
the implementation of the Complete
and Green Streets Policy.
That this ordinance
Section 9.
shall be effective January 1, 2012.”.
3. Renumber existing Section 8 to
new “Section 10”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter a copy of the legislation
was furnished to each member of
Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1097-11.
By Council Members Miller and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 23 of Ordinance No. 1612-10,
passed February 7, 2011, relating to
the removal and replacement of the
Commercial Road Bridge.
Approved by Directors of Capital
Projects, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1213-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to pay as
Moral Claims the sums opposite the
names of the claimants.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1214-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to exercise the first option to renew Con-

The City Record

28
tract No. CT 1511 PS 2010-124 with
Oracle America, Inc. to provide for
the acquisition and maintenance of
software licenses and other Oracle
products for the various divisions of
City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 1222-11.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution accepting the amounts and rates as determined by the Cuyahoga County Budget Commission and authorizing the
necessary tax levies and certifying
them to the County Auditor.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Adoption recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
17. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas
17. Nays 0.
MOTION
By Council Member Reed, seconded by Council Member Cummins and
unanimously
carried
that
the
absence of Council Members Joe
Cimperman and Terrell H. Pruitt, be
and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:30 p.m. to meet on Monday, September 26, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the
Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

September 14, 2011
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, September 14,
2011, at 10:41 a.m. with Interim
Director Langhenry presiding.
Present:
Interim
Director
Langhenry, Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith, Cox, Butler, Flask,
Rush,
Southerington,
Nichols,
Fumich and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Jomarie Wasik, Director,
Mayor’s Office of Capital Projects.
Natoya
Walker-Minor,
Interim
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity.

Jim Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases & Supplies.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 445-11.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts
during
the
month
of
August, 2011 in the amount of
$7,779.66, attached and made a part
of
this
resolution,
is
received,
approved and ordered filed.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 446-11.
By Director Dumas.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on August 3, 2011,
for the purchase of an estimated
quantity of computer hardware and
software, including printers, ancillary
accessories,
parts,
supplies,
peripheral devices, and labor and
materials for installation if necessary, and maintenance, support, and
training, for the various divisions of
City government, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1350-10, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on November 8, 2010, are rejected.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 447-11.
By Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1965-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
March 10, 2008, and Resolution No.
503-08, adopted by this Board of Control on October 15, 2008, the City
through its Director of Public Utilities on November 11, 2008 entered
into Contract No. 68653 with EMA,
Inc. (“Consultant”), to perform the
professional services necessary to
acquire licenses or develop a work
order management and inventory
management
system,
including
installing,
designing,
training,
implementing, integrating, migrating, interfacing, testing, maintenance, technical support, and other
related issues, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 146-10, adopted April
21, 2010, the City entered into a first
modification to Contract No. 68653
for further implementation of the
work order management and inventory management system for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
including phase 1 additional services, enterprise users, advanced
consumers, support for 15 users, current year software maintenance for
existing software, training, testing,

1552

September 21, 2011
technical
support,
a
EMA/FMIS
interface, and other related systemenhancement services; and
Whereas, to further the implementation of the work order management and inventory management
system, the City requires additional
Infor EAM licenses for Inventory
staff and additional professional
services for Phase II including
design, development, configuration
and training for the web portal tool,
to organize the project, to design,
develop, configure, and document
Infor EAM configurations, and to
train staff; and
Whereas, Consultant has proposed
by its April 21, 2011 letter to provide
the additional licenses and to perthe
additional
services
form
described above, thereby increasing
the total amount payable under City
Contract No. 68653 by $175,000.00;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into a second
modification to Contract No. 68653
with EMA, Inc. to obtain additional
licenses and performance of the
above-described additional services
for a fee of $175,000.00, thereby
increasing the total compensation
under the Agreement, as modified,
from $660,800.00 to $835,800.00. The
Director of Law shall prepare the
modification
authorized
second
above which shall include such additional provisions as that Director
deems necessary to benefit and protect the public interest.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 448-11.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1596-10, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on December 6,
2010, Middough Inc., is selected from
a list of firms determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities as the
firm to be employed by contract to
supplement the regularly employed
staff of several departments of the
City of Cleveland to perform the professional services necessary to provide professional electrical engineering and planning services, on
an as-needed basis for a period of
two years, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into contract with
Middough Inc. based on its proposal
dated June 10, 2011, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, shall provide for furnishing of
professional services as contained in
the proposal, and shall contain such
additional provisions as the Director
of Law deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
work shall commence upon the day
after expiration of the current contract for electrical engineering services or the date of execution of this
contract, whichever occurs later and
shall provide for the furnishing of

The City Record

September 21, 2011
professional services as described in
the proposal for an aggregate fee of
$1,000,000.00.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
sub-consultants
is
approved:
SUB-CONSULTANTS

WORK
PERCENTAGE

R. Engineering Team. (CSB/M)
$ 50,000.00
5.00%
Stephen Hovancsek &
Associates, Inc. (CSB/F) $ 50,000.00
5.00%
West Monroe Partners LLC
$100,000.00
10.00%
Davey Resource Group

$100,000.00
10.00%

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 449-11.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Kokosing Construction
Inc.
for
the
public
Company,
improvement of the Morgan Raw
Water Pump Station Mechanical,
Electrical
and
Miscellaneous
Improvements
Project
No.
608,
including a $521,200.00 contingency
allowance, all items, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, received on August 4, 2011,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
816-11, passed July 20, 2011, upon a
gross price for the improvement in
the
aggregate
amount
of
$5,733,200.00,
is
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a
contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following sub-contractors by
Kokosing
Construction
Company,
Inc. for the above-mentioned public
improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

VIP Restoration, Inc.

$

115,000.00
2.006%

Herbst Electric Company
$2,300,000.00
40.117%
Schweitzer Dipple, Inc.

$

84,000.00
1.465%

McGary & Sons, Inc.

$

18,000.00
0.314%

Industrial First

$

121,000.00
2.111%

Precision Environmental Co.
$ 197,000.00
3.436%

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 450-11.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Great Lakes Petroleum
Co. for an estimated quantity of
materials to provide off-road fossil
fuel and supporting services, Group
1, items 1-4, for the various Divisions of the Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of two years
starting upon the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration of the currently
effective contract for the goods or
services, with an option to renew for
one additional year, received on
July 22, 2011, under the authority of
Section 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $242,411.85
(0%), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
of
Public
Utilities
is
Director
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which contract shall provide for an initial order, the cost of
which shall be certified to the contract in an amount not less than
$12,121.00 for the Division of Water
and in an amount not less than
$50,000.00 for the Division of Cleveland Public Power and in an amount
not less than $10,000.00 for the Division of Water Pollution Control.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 451-11.
By Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of O.E. Meyer Co. for an estimated quantity of materials to provide off-road fossil fuel and supporting services, Group 2, items 1-3,
for the various Divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years starting upon
the later of the execution of a contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods or services, with an
option to renew for one additional
year, received on July 22, 2011,
under
the
authority
of
Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $21,796.00 (Net 30),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which contract shall provide for an initial
order, the cost of which shall be cer-

1553

29
tified to the contract in an amount
not less than $1,090.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Withers, R. Smith, Cox,
Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington,
Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Dumas.
Resolution No. 452-11.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1968-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
March 10, 2008, the firm of Hyland
Software,
Inc.
(“Consultant”),
is
selected upon the nomination of the
Director of Port Control from a list
of qualified persons or firms determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control
as the firm of consultants available
to be employed by contract to supplement
the
regularly
employed
staff of the several departments of
the City to provide professional services necessary to design, configure
and install a centralized document
management system for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control, for a period of two years,
with two one-year options to renew,
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with Hyland Software, Inc. for the
above-mentioned
services,
based
upon its proposal dated January 28,
2011, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide that the compensation to
Hyland Software, Inc. for the services authorized shall not exceed
$203,836.84, and shall contain such
other provisions as the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 453-11.
By Director Smith.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance Nos. 2380-02, 468-04, 185306 and 1329-08, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland on
December 16, 2002, April 26, 2004,
December 11, 2006 and October 20,
2008, respectively, and Board of Control Resolution No. 325-10, adopted
August 4, 2010, the City through its
Director of Port Control, entered
into Contract No. PS2010*251 with
Ehrenkrantz Eckstut & Kuhn Architects, P.C. (“Consultant”), to provide
professional services necessary to
prepare planning studies, for a period of two years, with two options to
renew for additional two year periods, for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control; and
Whereas, the City has determined
the need for supplemental planning
studies for the development of a
comprehensive plan synergizing var-

The City Record

30
ious
land
use
recommendations
regarding the downtown waterfront;
and
Whereas, the Consultant has proposed by its letter dated September
2, 2011 to perform the additional
work necessary for an amount of
$46,000.00; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into a first modto
City
Contract
No.
ification
PS2010*251 between the City of
Cleveland and Ehrenkrantz Eckstut
& Kuhn Architects, P.C. for supplemental planning studies for the
development of a comprehensive
plan synergizing various land use
recommendations
regarding
the
downtown waterfront as set forth in
Consultant’s letters dated September
2, 2011. The amount to be paid for
all services shall be increased by
$46,000.00 from $700,000.00 to a total
not to exceed $746,000.00.
Be it further resolved that the
amount attributed to the following
subconsultant approved in Board of
Control Resolution No. 325-10, adopted August 4, 2010, is amended to
read as follows:
Subconsultant

Percentage
Amount

Van Auken Architects,
LLC
29.18% CSB/FBE/LPE
$217,738.00
Be it further resolved that all
other terms of Resolution No. 325-10
not expressly amended by this resolution shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 454-11.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of B.P. Britches Inc., dba Christopher’s, for an estimated quantity of
various Uniform Clothing, items 40,
40a, 40b, 41, 41a, 41b, 42, 42a, 42b, 43,
43a, 43b, 44, 44a, 44b, 45, 45a, 45b, 46,
46a, 46b, 47, 47a, 47b, 53, 54, 59, 60,
62, 63, 66, 67, 73, 74, 76, 77 and 81,
for the Division of Fire, Department
of Public Safety, for the period of
one (1) year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on April 7, 2011, under the
authority of Section No. 135.06 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$100,180.00 is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Safety is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in an
amount not less than $10,225.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.

Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 455-11.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Cleveland Uniform, for an estimated quantity of various Uniform
Clothing, items 55, 56, and 82, for the
Division of Fire, Department of Public Safety, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
April 7, 2011, under the authority of
Section No. 135.06 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $21,673.75
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which contract shall provide for an initial
order, the cost of which shall be certified to the contract in an amount
not less than $4,597.50.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 456-11.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Novak Supply, for an estimated
quantity of various Uniform Clothing, items 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30,
31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 50, 51 and 84, for
the Division of Fire, Department of
Public Safety, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
April 7, 2011, under the authority of
Section No. 135.06 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $14,167.93
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Safety is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which contract shall provide for an initial
order, the cost of which shall be certified to the contract in an amount
not less than $1,535.50.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

1554

September 21, 2011
Resolution No. 457-11.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Schwarz Uniform, for an estimated quantity of various Uniform
Clothing, items 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
18, 19, 20, 36, 37, 37a, 37b, 38, 38a,
38b, 48, 48a, 48b, 49, 49a, 49b, 57, 58,
61, 64, 65, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 75, 83 and
85, for the Division of Fire, Department of Public Safety, for the period of one (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on April 7, 2011, under the
authority of Section No. 135.06 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$196,250.00 is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Safety is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in an
amount not less than $18,425.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 458-11.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Stonewall Uniform, for an estimated quantity of various Uniform
Clothing, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 21, 22, 23, 39, 39a, 52 and
79, for the Division of Fire, Department of Public Safety, for the period of one (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on April 7, 2011, under the
authority of Section No. 135.06 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$148,300.00 is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Safety is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or services,
which contract shall provide for an
initial order, the cost of which shall
be certified to the contract in an
amount not less than $14,750.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under delivery
orders separately certified to the
contract.
Yeas: Interim Director Langhenry,
Directors Dumas, Withers, R. Smith,
Cox, Butler, Flask, Rush, Southerington, Nichols, Fumich and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

September 21, 2011
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ROBERT BENNETT,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2011
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 11-160: 2215 West 10th
Street (Ward 3)
Nicholas Graor, owner, appeals to
erect a 19' x 16' wooden open carport with a second floor deck and
two (2) roof dormers added to a one
family dwelling on a 90' x 65' parcel in a C1 General Retail Business
District; and under the provisions in
Section 337.14 no parking space may
located within 10 feet of a wall
which contains ground floor openings that provide light or ventilation
and
according
to
Section
337.23(a) all accessory parking shall
be placed on the rear half of the lot.
An interior side yard of 1 foot is provided contrary to the required 3 feet
and the aggregate width of side
yards on the same premises may not
be less than 10 feet and the total of
both interior side yards equals 3
feet contrary to Section 357.09(2)B;
and under the limitations of Section
357.13(b)(1)(4) open porches may
not extend within 10 feet of the
street line and 2 feet is provided;
and the expansion of an existing
nonconforming
use
requires
the
Board of Zoning Appeals approval
in accordance with Cleveland Codified Ordinances Section 359.01.
Calendar No. 11-161: 3430 Memphis
Avenue (Ward 13)
Ewazen Management Ltd., owner,
and Makia Santiago, tenant, appeal
to change from a plumber contracting office to a nail salon the use in

The City Record

31

an existing building located on a
60.06' x 172.26' lot in a C1 MultiFamily District; subject to the provisions in Section 359.01 the substitution or other change in a nonconforming use is not permitted except
by special permit from the Board of
Zoning Appeals, if the Board finds
after public hearing that the substitution or change is no more harmful or objectionable in floor or other
space occupied, in volume of trade
or production, in kind of goods sold
or produced, in daily hours or other
period of use, in the type or number
of persons to occupy or be attracted
to the premises or in any other characteristics of the new use as compared with the previous nonconforming use
Calendar No. 11-163: 12204 Mayfield
Road (Ward 9)
Clara’s Place LLC and Rosanne
Passalacqua, owner, and Anthony
Nunes, tenant, appeal to change use
to a restaurant a store space in a
mixed use building on a 50' x 175'
corner lot in a C2 General Retail
Business District; and six (6) parking spaces are required for twentyfour (24) seats at one space for each
four seats and none is proposed, conto
the
off-street
parking
trary
requirement under Section 349.04(f)
in the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 11-164: 2656 Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive (Ward 6)
Eunice Spires, owner, appeals to
erect a 4' x 28' L-shaped wooden
wheelchair ramp in the front yard
of a 49.04' x 161.50' parcel in a B1
Two-Family District, where the proposed ramp is not a permitted
encroachment in the front yard area
under the provisions in Section
329.04(c)(1) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.

June 9, 2011 to disapprove a Certificate of Appropriateness to demolish
the structure located on property at
8601 Euclid Avenue.
The following appeal was WITHDRAWN:
Calendar No. 11-159: 17902 Canterbury Road
Paul Bearden appealed to erect a
9' x 25' wooden open front porch to
a single family residence in an A1
One-Family District.
The following appeals were DISMISSED:
None.
The following appeal was POSTPONED:
Calendar No. 11-157: 1721 Fulton
Road postponed to October 10,
2011.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on September 12, 2011
were adopted and approved on September 19, 2011.
The
following
APPROVED:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 11-152: 8411 Broadway
Avenue
Community Assessment and Treatment Services appealed to expand
the occupancy of an existing Correctional Halfway House by adding
8 residents for a total of 56 residents
in a General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 11-129: 4029-33 St. Clair
Avenue
Wai
Hung
Ltd.,
owner,
and
Raseem Parker, prospective tenant,
appealed for a change of use from
a store to a restaurant in a B3 Residence Industry District.

Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2011
Calendar No. 11-154: 1443 East 92nd
Street
Sherit Johnson appealed to erect a
two-story room addition to a single
family dwelling in s B1 Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 11-130: 4888 Pearl Road
Nick Varlamos, owner, and Hank
Lewon, prospective tenant, appealed
for a change of use from a store to
a tattoo studio in a C1 Local Retail
Business District; subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 11-133: 4305 Clark
Avenue
Andres Velez appealed to building
an addition to an existing mixed use
structure in a C2 Semi-Industry District.
The
following
DENIED:

appeal

was

Calendar No. 11-156: 8601 Euclid
Avenue
Euclid Avenue Church of God
appealed from a ruling of the Cleveland
Landmarks
Commission
on

1555

Calendar No. 11-82: 3801 St. Clair
Avenue
Van Kim Enterprises LLC, owner,
and
William
Ronny,
tenant,
appealed for use as private club
meeting and live entertainment with
food and beverage service in an
existing
building
in
a
General
Industry District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
September 14, 2011
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in the City
Record:
*    *    *
Docket A-3-11.
RE: Appeal of Windy F. Siegfried,
Owner of the Residential Property
located on the premises known as
12503 Parkhill Avenue from a LIMITATION ON THE PERMIT, dated
December 1, 2010 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with

The City Record

32
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain all required permits and
six (6) months in which to complete
abatement of the violations; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-34-11.
RE: Appeal of Claude Villette,
Owner of the R-2 Residential.
Non-transient; Apartments (Shared
Egress) Two & One/half Story
Masonry Walls/Wood floors Property located on the premises known as
1812 Colonnade Road from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated January 5, 2011,
and from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION
— HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS, January 7, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and six (6) months
in which to complete abatement of
violations;
the
property
is
the
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-37-11.
RE: Appeal of Slavic Village
Development (Villa Montessori Center), Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 5620
Broadway Avenue from a UNNECESSARY ALARM INVOICE, dated
December 1, 2010 of the Director of
the Department of Public Safety,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
No action required by the Board
at this time, noting the understanding between the Appellants and the
City that there will be a time lapse
between the alarm, false or true, for
the Appellants to review the property and determine whether it’s a
real alarm or a false alarm; and
then forward that action to the
police before there is an alarm
turned in and a fine incurred for a
false alarm and that the Appellant
has agreed to pay for two of the
three false alarms to date.
*    *    *
Docket A-41-11.
RE: Appeal of Jermaine Jackson,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property

located on the premises known as
2246
East
86th
Street
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — INTERIOR/EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE,
dated January 14, 2011 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
NOTICE OF VIOLATION was properly issued as evidenced by the photographs, that the request for additional time is DENIED, noting no
attendance by the Appellant at the
hearing and no work has been done;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
in
order.
Motioned
by
Mr.
so
Maschke
and
seconded
y
Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-45-11.
RE:
Appeal
of
Dennis
Casey/Caden Development, Owner
of the one Dwelling Unit SingleFamily Residence Two & One/half
Story Wood Frame/Siding/ Masonry
Veneer Property located on the
premises known as 12535 Lancelot
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated June 10, 2010 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to complete abatement of the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.

September 21, 2011
DEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated July 30, 2010 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-55-11 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for September 28, 2011.
*    *    *
Docket A-57-11.
RE: Appeal of Felicia Fox, Owner
of the Residential Property located
on the premises known as 1779
Algonac Road from a LIMITATION
ON THE PERMITS, dated March 1,
2011 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and six (6) months
in which to complete abatement of
the violations, pending the approval
or concurrence of the inspector; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Yeas:
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-58-11.
RE: Appeal of Lance A. Williams,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
12013 Continental Avenue from a
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MAIN
STRUCTURE & GARAGE, dated
April 20, 2010 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-58-11 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for September 28, 2011.

*    *    *
*    *    *
Docket A-54-11.
RE: Appeal of Julia Zilch, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 3515 West 128th Street
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated
July 30, 2010 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action required by the Board,
noting that the property has been
demolished.
*    *    *
Docket A-55-11.
RE: Appeal of Terence Coffey,
Owner of the Three Dwelling Units
Three-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
1331 East 115th Street from a CON-

1556

Docket A-59-11.
RE: Appeal of Bruce M. Robertson,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single-Family Residence Two Story
Masonry Property located on the
premises known as 664 East 162nd
Street
from
a
CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated December 3, 2010 of the Director of the Department of Building
and
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and six (6) months
in which to complete abatement of
the violations, the property must
remain neat the debris removed, and
the grounds groomed during that
period of time; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.

The City Record

September 21, 2011
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.

Bradley,
Absent:

*    *    *
Docket A-61-11.
RE: Appeal of Nayra Perez, Owner
of the One Dwelling Unit SingleFamily residence One & One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 2724 West 30th
from
a
CONDEMNATION
Street
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
dated February 22, 2011 of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to reinstate the
existing permits and to grant the
Appellant six (6) months in which
to complete abatement of the violations, with the provision that the
structure be maintained weather
tight, boarded, and the grounds
groomed and debris free during that
period of time, and that any extensions of time required by the Appellant because of legal complications,
can be granted by the inspector
with satisfactory progress of the
work; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for superviand
any
required
further
sion
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr.
Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-62-11.
RE: Appeal of Dolores E. Lee,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
2197
East
70th
Street
from
a
VACATE ORDER, dated February 7,
2011 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant three (3) months in which
to begin renovation of the property
and an additional six (6) months in
which to complete abatement of the
violations, if progress is satisfactory and the inspector concurs; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-63-11.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland Restoration Group, Owner of the Residential Property located on the premises known as 13705 Deise Avenue
from a LIMITATION ON THE PERMITS, dated March 7, 2011 of the

Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to complete abatement of all violations, the property can be occupied,
for security reasons, with the concurrence of the inspector if the sanitary facilities are operable and if
there are no safety hazards; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-74-11.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland Restoration Group, Owner of the Residential Property located on the premises known as 6616 Gertrude Avenue
from a LIMITATION ON THE PERMITS, dated March 16, 2011 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant six (6) months in which
to complete abatement of all violations, the property is to remain
boarded, weather tight, and grounds
groomed and debris free during that
period of time; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-120-11.
RE: Appeal of Desarea Strong,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family
Residence
Two
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
11600 Ashbury Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE, dated February 25,
2011 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order was properly
issued as evidenced by the photographs, and that the request for
additional time is DENIED, noting
no attendance by the Appellant and
work no being done; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.

1557

33
Docket A-130-11.
RE: Appeal of Martin D’Amico,
Owner of the M Mercantile – Retail
Shops, Carryout Food Shops One
Story Wood Frame/Siding/Masonry
Veneer Property located on the
premises known as 6316 Lansing
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER
—
MAIN
STRUCTURE,
March 1, 2011 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Condemnation Order were properly
issued based upon the photographic
evidence and testimony, the request
for additional time is DENIED, noting the lack of attendance or a
viable plan by the Appellant; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Yeas:
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
Docket A-159-11.
RE:
Appeal
of
Patrick
McSweeney, Owner of the Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two & One/half Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 19225 Nottingham Road
from a CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MAIN STRUCTURE & GARAGE,
dated April 18, 2011 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-159-11 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
*    *    *
Docket A-257-11.
RE: Appeal of Acorn Development,
LLC — George Troicky, Owner of
the Property located on the premises known as 3725 Croton Avenue
from an ADJUDICATION ORDER
(use storage/cold storage and interior alternations), dated July 1, 2011
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket is
rescheduled for September 28, 2011.
*    *    *
Docket A-278-11.
RE: Appeal of U.S.A. Parking Systems — Ellsworth Grimsley, Owner
of the Property located on the
premises known as 2105 Ontario
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER
(erect
foundations
and
related underground utilities and
site demolition for the Casino Welcome Center), dated August 26, 2011
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variances required for the new con-

The City Record

34
struction and utilities and to incorporate the encroaching document in
the documents for the property; the
property is REMANDED at this time
to the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Maschke and
seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
EXTENSION OF TIME:
Docket A-23-10.
Shores
Development
Northeast
Group – 384 East 163rd Street:
A motion is in order at this time
to grant the Appellant thirty (30)
days in which to complete abatement of the violations; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Maschke.
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Bradley,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Absent:
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.
*    *    *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-9-11 — Neff Lake Apts., LLC
A-25-11 — Sonia Sanchez
A-40-11 — David N. Imayeguahi
A-44-11 — Ohio Properties, LLC
A-47-11 — Angio Co.
A-49-11 — Averell Lee
A-50-11 — Selar, Inc.
A-51-11 — St. George Antiochian
Orthodox
A-52-11 — Michelle D. Kinard
A-53-11 — U.S. Bank N.A. C/O
Wells Fargo
A-88-11 — Chase Home Finance
A-107-11 — Dennis A. Pahner
A-108-11 — Dennis A. Pahner
A-199-11 — JP Morgan Chase
Bank, N.A.
A-203-11 — Chandler Taylor
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.

Bradley,
Absent:

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, September 28, 2011
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
September 28, 2011,  at  1:00 p.m., to
consider the following ordinances
now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 838-11.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An
ordinance
establishing
a
Planned Unit Development Overlay
District and changing the Use, Area
and Height Districts of a lands
located on the north side of Aetna
Road at E. 71st Street and E. 72nd
Street to a One Family Residential
District, an ‘A’ Area District and a
‘1’ Height District (Map Change No.
2365, Sheet No. 6)
Ord. No. 930-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land located on the south
sides of Fenwick Avenue west of W.
44th Street to Two Family Residential District (Map Change No. 2367,
Sheet Number 1).
Ord. No. 961-11.
By Council Member Miller.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of land
located on the north side of Euclid
Avenue between Burgess Road and
Cliffview Road to Two Family Residential, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘1’
Height District (Map Change No.
2368, Sheet Number 7).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Chair
Committee on City Planning

*    *    *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Maschke and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):

_____
September 14, 2011 and September 21, 2011

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

September 21, 2011
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
the
following
notice
advertised,
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2011
File No. 155-11 — Various Meyer
Snow Plow Spreader Equipment,
Parts and Labor, for the Division
of
Motor
Vehicle
Maintenance,
Department of Public Works, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 1330-A10, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 6, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2011 AT
10:30 A.M. THE MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44105.
File No. 156-11 — Various HarleyDavidson Parts and Labor, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department
of
Public
Works, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1330-A-10, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, December
6, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2011 AT
10:00 A.M. THE MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, 4150 EAST
49TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44105.
September 14, 2011 and September 21, 2011
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2011

August 31, 2011
For All Departments
Yeas:
Messrs.
Denk,
Maschke.
Nays:
None.
Messrs. Gallagher, Saab.

Bradley,
Absent:

*    *    *
JOSEPH F. DENK
Chairman

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.

1558

File No. 152-11 — The Purchase of
Electrical Motors, Pumps and
Ancillary Equipment, Including
Labor and Materials for Repair,
for the Various Divisions of Port
Control, Department of Port Control, as authorized by Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.

September 21, 2011

The City Record

35

THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2011 AT
10:00 A.M. THE DEPARTMENT
OF PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S
CENTRAL
BUILDING,
19451
RECEIVING
FIVE POINTS ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.

Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares its intent to vacate a portion of the following described real
property:

Course No. 3:
Thence S 78° 25' 48" W, along said
southerly line of High Avenue S.E., a
distance of 166.77 feet to its intersection with said easterly line of Ontario
Street;

LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF EAST 1st
STREET VACATION CITY OF
CLEVELAND

File No. 153-11 — Purchase of Necessary Items of Fencing and
Gates, Including Labor and Materials for Repair and Installation,
for the Various Divisions of Port
Control, Department of Port Control, as authorized by Ordinance No.
808-11, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, July 20, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2011 AT
10:00 A.M. THE DEPARTMENT
OF PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S
CENTRAL
RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE POINTS ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Original
Two Acre Lot No. 97 further described
as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of the
northerly line of High Avenue S.E.,
(46.36 feet wide), with the northeasterly line of Ontario Street (99 feet
wide); thence N 78° 25' 48" E, along
said northerly line of High Avenue
S.E., a distance of 61.42 feet to its
intersection with said westerly line of
East 1st Street, said intersection
being the principal point of beginning
of the vacation premises herein
intended to be described;

Course No. 4:
Thence N 33° 18' 27" W, along said
easterly line of Ontario Street, a distance of 49.91 feet the principal point
of beginning and containing 0.1873
acres (8,160 sq. ft.) of land according
to a survey by Garrett and Associates
in May, 2011 be the same more or less
but subject to all legal highways and
easements of record.
Bearings cited within the above
description are of an assumed meridian and are for the sole purpose of
determining angles.
The intent of this description is to
vacate High Avenue S.E. from the
easterly line of Ontario Street to the
westerly line of East 2nd Street.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That the portion of East
1st Street extending south from
Prospect Avenue to the vacation be
restricted to pedestrian use only. This
restriction shall be considered a regulation under Section 403.03 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, and the appropriate signs shall
be erected. The requirements for the
adoption of regulations under Section
403.03 are considered fulfilled by the
adoption and publication of this ordinance and no further notice or publication is required.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 12, 2011.

File No. 154-11 — The Rental of
Large
Capacity
Trucks
with
Operators and Other Equipment
with Operators, for the Various
Divisions of Port Control, Department of Port Control, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 598-11, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, July 20, 2011.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2011 AT
10:00 A.M. THE DEPARTMENT
OF PORT CONTROL, CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT’S
CENTRAL
RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE POINTS ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.
File No. 157-11 — Ice Rescue Equipment, for the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 813-10,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, September 27, 2010.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2011
AT 10:00 A.M. THE CLEVELAND
FIRE
DEPARTMENT,
1645
SUPERIOR
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.

Course No. 1:
Thence N 11° 27' 00" W, along said
westerly line of East 1st Street, a distance of 77.50 feet to the northerly line
of the vacation being described herein;
Course No. 2:
Thence N 78° 33' 00" E, along said
northerly line of the vacation being
described herein, a distance of 10.00
feet to the easterly line of said East
1st Street;
Course No. 3:
Thence S 11° 27' 00" E, along said
easterly of East 1st Street, a distance
of 77.48 feet to the northerly line of
High Avenue S.E.;
Course No. 4:
Thence S 78° 25' 48" W, along said
northerly line of High Avenue, S.E. a
distance of 10.00 feet to its intersection with said westerly line of East
1st Street and the principal point of
beginning and containing 0.0178
acres ( 775 sq. ft.) of land according to
a survey by Garrett & Associates in
August, 2011, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways
and easements of record.
Bearings cited within the above
description are of an assumed meridian and are for the sole purpose of
determining angles.
HIGH AVENUE S.E. VACATION

September 14, 2011 and September 21, 2011

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 1099-11.
By Council Members Miller, Cleveland, and Sweeney (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intent to vacate a portion of East
1st Street and a portion of High
Avenue S.E.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of East 1st Street and a portion of High Avenue S.E., as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Original
Two Acre Lot Nos. 97 and 98 and further described as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of the
easterly line of Ontario Street (99 feet
wide), with the Northerly line of High
Avenue S.E. (46.36 feet wide) said
intersection being the principal point
of beginning of the vacation premises
herein intended to be described;
Course No. 1:
Thence N 78° 25' 48" E, along said
northerly line of High Street, a distance of 185.25 feet to its intersection
with the westerly line of East 2nd
Street (50 feet wide);
Course No. 2:
Thence S 11° 34' 12" E, a distance of
46.36 feet to a point on the southerly
line of said High Avenue S.E.;

1559

Res. No. 1226-11.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Reed, Cummins, Keane, Cimperman,
Polensek, Zone, Kelley, J. Johnson,
Cleveland, Pruitt, Mitchell, Brady,
Westbrook, Sweeney and Miller.
An emergency resolution strongly
supporting the renewal and reauthorization of the Clean Ohio Fund, and
urging the Ohio legislature to reinstate full funding to all four components of the Clean Ohio Program:
Clean Ohio Revitalization Fund,
Clean Ohio Agricultural Easement
Purchase Program, Clean Ohio Green
Space Conservation Program, and
Clean Ohio Trails Fund.
Whereas, the Clean Ohio Fund is a
$400 million state bond initiative
approved by Ohio voters in 2000 and
overwhelmingly renewed in all 88
counties in 2008 with strong bipartisan support from the executive and
legislative leadership; and
Whereas, the Governor and Ohio
legislature are considering limiting
the bond authorization and, in particular, the “Green Field” capital appropriations in the Clean Ohio Program;
and
Whereas, the Clean Ohio Fund is a
public-private partnership, the program invests in local communities by
preserving green space and farmland,

36
improving outdoor recreation, and
cleaning up brown fields; and
Whereas, the Clean Ohio Green
Space Conservation appropriations
have been vital to the City of Cleveland’s redevelopment efforts in making the city competitive with other
national urban areas with high quality open space and outdoor recreational areas; and
Whereas, all 88 counties have
received Clean Ohio funding, resulting in projects that have stimulated
local economies while simultaneously
attracting private capital investments; and
Whereas, in the City of Cleveland,
the Clean Ohio Greenfield projects
have supported the development of
Canal Basin Park, the Lake Link
Trail & Greenway Corridor, the Cuyahoga American Heritage River Habitat Restoration and the Towpath
Trail-Harvard Avenue to Steelyard
Commons; and
Whereas, many of the Cleveland
recreational trail projects are not yet
completed and had assumed future
funding from the Clean Ohio Program
for completion; and
Whereas, the Clean Ohio Fund has
been credited with creating close to
15,000 jobs, and leveraged additional
investments in the State of Ohio to
create a total economic impact of
approximately $2.6 billion in public
and private investments to date; and,
Whereas, renewal of the Clean Ohio
Fund would help keep Ohio economically viable, environmentally sound,
and poised for the future, while maintaining and enhancing the quality of
life of all Ohioans; and,
Whereas, for these reasons, we
strongly urge the General Assembly
to approve a capital appropriation for
all of the programs of the Clean Ohio
Fund so that this investment can continue to contribute to the state’s economy and quality of life of all of its citizens; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Cleveland City
Council strongly supports the renewal and reauthorization of the Clean
Ohio Fund, and urges the Ohio legislature to reinstate full funding to
all four components of the Clean
Ohio Program: Clean Ohio Revitalization Fund, Clean Ohio Agricultural Easement Purchase Program,
Clean Ohio Green Space Conservation Program, and Clean Ohio Trails
Fund.
Section 2. That the Clerk of the
Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to the Honorable John Kasich, Governor; the Honorable Thomas Niehaus, President of
the Senate; and the Honorable
William Batchelder, Speaker, Ohio
House of Representatives.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

The City Record
Res. No. 1228-11.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution supporting Cuyahoga County Council, and
Cuyahoga County Executive Ed
FitzGerald’s effort to continue the
vote by mail program.
Whereas, since 2006 the Cuyahoga
County Board of Elections has regularly mailed ballot applications to
about 650,000 voters; and
Whereas, in Cuyahoga County, 47%
of people who voted in the 2010 general election cast absentee ballots; and
Whereas, Cuyahoga County Executive Ed FitzGerald defended the voteby-mail program, saying it has simplified voting for thousands of residents,
including senior citizens who have
trouble getting to voting sites; it has
also helped the county avoid situations outside the polls like long lines
and waiting times from voters; and
Whereas, a controversial state law
will prevent county boards of election
from paying return postage on applications or paying postage for completed ballots unless efforts to trigger
a referendum are successful; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports Cuyahoga County Council, and
Cuyahoga
County
Executive
Ed
FitzGerald’s effort to continue the
vote by mail program.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is directed to transmit a copy of this
resolution to County Executive Ed
FitzGerald.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Res. No. 1229-11.
By Mayor Jackson, Council Members Cimperman and J. Johnson.
An emergency resolution supporting U.S. House of Representatives Bill
2795, Fit for Life Act of 2011, introduced by Congresswoman Marcia L.
Fudge to combat childhood obesity
especially in underserved communities; and supporting U.S. House of
Representatives Resolution 339, designating September 2011 as National
Childhood Obesity Awareness Month.
Whereas, U.S. House of Representatives Bill 2795, Fit for Life Act of 2011,
introduced by Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge on August 5, 2011, and
cosponsored by Rep. Donna Christensen (Virgin Islands), Rep. Barbara Lee (California - 9) and Rep.
Donald Payne (New Jersey – 10), is a
comprehensive approach to addressing the obesity crisis by improving
the quality of and access to food,
advancing preventative measures,
expanding treatment of obesity in
children, and encouraging physical
activity in underserved communities;
and

1560

September 21, 2011
Whereas, one in three children are
obese or overweight, and this bill
addresses many of the factors that
impact the high rate of obesity specifically in minority communities, such
as food desserts and need for safe
places to exercise, according to Congresswoman Fudge; and
Whereas, the legislation has support from more than 20 organizations,
including the American College of
Sports Medicine, American Beverage
Association, and America SCORES
Cleveland; and
Whereas, citing the fact that our
country spends almost $150 billion per
year to treat obesity-related conditions in adults, Congresswoman
Fudge says, “this bill addresses
excess costs through preventative
measures and altering external circumstances to reduce the number of
children who will become obese,
therefore reducing the likelihood
they will become obese adults”; and
Whereas, this legislation tackles
the lack of supermarkets in underserved communities by creating a program to award grants to local partnerships to establish or enhance
existing supermarkets that sell fresh
fruits and produce in low income communities located in food deserts; and
Whereas, it also expands the Fresh
Fruit and Vegetable Program, by
amending the National School Lunch
Act to include secondary schools,
child care centers, and family child
care homes, while increasing access
to the Summer Food Service Programs for Children; and
Whereas, this Council, together
with Mayor Jackson, created the
Healthy Cleveland Initiative by Resolution No. 257-11, passed February 28,
2011, and supports the efforts of the
Fit for Life Act of 2011 to combat
childhood obesity especially in underserved communities through preventative health; and
Whereas, this Council also supports
U.S. House of Representatives Resolution 339, also introduced by Congresswoman Fudge, designating September 2011 as National Childhood Obesity Awareness Month; and
Whereas, during National Childhood Obesity Awareness Month this
September, parents, schools, and
health care providers will promote fitness and nutrition for our kids; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports U.S. House of Representatives
Bill 2795, Fit for Life Act of 2011,
introduced by Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge to combat childhood
obesity especially in underserved
communities;
and
supports
U.S.
House of Representatives Resolution 339, designating September 2011
as
National
Childhood
Obesity
Awareness Month.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution to Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge and
Mayor Frank G. Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and

September 21, 2011
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Res. No. 1236-11.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 6815
Broadway Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Dolgen Midwest, LLC, DBA
Dollar General Store #11392, 6815
Broadway Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
Permanent
Number
44105,
22348150915; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Dolgen Midwest,
LLC, DBA Dollar General Store,
#11392,
6815
Broadway
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, Permanent
Number 22348150915; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Res. No. 1237-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 1740 East
17th Street, 1st floor and basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
ownership of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit from 1740 East Seventeenth
Street, LLC, DBA Moe’s Bar, 1740 East
17th Street, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 6548846 to 17th Street Bar &
Grill, LLC, 1740 East 17th Street, 1st
floor and basement, Cleveland, Ohio
44114, Permanent Number 8001459;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from 1740 East Seventeenth Street, LLC, DBA Moe’s
Bar, 1740 East 17th Street, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44114,
Permanent Number 6548846 to 17th
Street Bar & Grill, LLC, 1740 East
17th Street, 1st floor and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 8001459; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.

1561

37
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Res. No. 1238-11.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of liquor
license of C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to
5616 Woodland Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
liquor license of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit from K B S Oil, Inc., DBA
Uncle Sam’s Beverage & Deli, 11022
Bellaire Road, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio
44111,
Permanent
Number
4424877 to K B S Oil, Inc., DBA Uncle
Sam’s Beverage & Deli, 5616 Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104,
Permanent Number 44248770001; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of liquor license of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from K B S Oil, Inc.,
DBA Uncle Sam’s Beverage & Deli,

38
11022 Bellaire Road, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number
4424877 to K B S Oil, Inc., DBA
Uncle Sam’s Beverage & Deli, 5616
Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
Permanent
Number
44104,
44248770001; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Res. No. 1239-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to West 14th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from
Lehigh Bas Ohio, LLC, DBA BP AM
PM, 3100 West 14th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44109,
Permanent
Number
50989840195 to Ranchhod Krupa, LLC,
DBA W. 14th BP, 3100 West 14th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 7196684; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of

The City Record
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from Lehigh Bas Ohio, LLC,
DBA BP AM PM, 3100 West 14th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number
50989840195
to
Ranchhod Krupa, LLC, DBA W. 14th
BP, 3100 West 14th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number
7196684; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Res. No. 1240-11.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of liquor
license of C2 and C2X Liquor Permit
to 6002 Woodland Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
liquor license of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit from Curtis Hunt, DBA Right
On Time Food & Beverage, 3609 Community College Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44115,
Permanent
Number
40739630001 to Curtis Hunt, DBA
Right On Time Food & Beverage, 6002
Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
40739630003; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

1562

September 21, 2011
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of liquor license of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Curtis Hunt,
DBA Right On Time Food & Bever3609
Community
College
age,
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 40739630001 to Curtis Hunt, DBA Right On Time Food
& Beverage, 6002 Woodland Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 40739630003; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immeupon
its
adoption
and
diately
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Res. No. 1241-11.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit at 3101 Scranton Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

September 21, 2011
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8917950 owned by 3101
Scranton, Inc., DBA Gas USA, 3101
Road,
Cleveland,
Ohio
Scranton
44109; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Res. No. 1243-11.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 16700 Lorain Avenue, Units
A & B.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 8774286 owned by TD
Ohio Enterprises, Inc., DBA BJ’s
Diamond Mine, 16700 Lorain Avenue,
Units A & B, Cleveland, Ohio 44111;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Res. No. 1245-11.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit at 4606 West 130th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 6977108 owned by Phnom
Penh Restaurant, Inc., DBA Shop
Rite Supermarket, 4606 West 130th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44135; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of

1563

39
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Res. No. 1247-11.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C1 Liquor Permit at 10225
Madison Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for a New C1 Liquor
Permit at Rayner Bozak, Inc., DBA
North Coast Rent A Wreck, 10225
Madison Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44102, Permanent Number 7226576;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this high
crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire
community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard of
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of this state or any other state;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed to
the building, safety or health requirements of the governing body of this
County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or constructed that law enforcement officers or agents of the Department of
Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Rayner Bozak,
Inc., DBA North Coast Rent A
Wreck,
10225
Madison
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102, Permanent
Number 7226576; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolu-

40
tion, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Res. No. 1248-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit
at 7310 Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the State
of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal of
a permit based upon legal grounds as
set forth in division (A) of Revised
Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated
his liquor permit business in a manner that demonstrates a disregard for
the laws, regulations or local ordinances of the state, and that this
objection is based on other legal
grounds as set forth in Revised Code
Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of
the public peace, prosperity, safety
and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than thirty days prior to the expiration date of
the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2012463 owned by Dee See, Inc., DBA
West 73rd Shell, 7310 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44102; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council
be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies of this resolution, together with two copies of a letter of objection and two copies of a
letter requesting that the hearing be
held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County,
and a statement by the Director of
Law that, in the Director’s opinion,
that the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon
its
adoption
and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force from
and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Adopted September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1094-11.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Miller, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Capital Projects to
issue a permit to USA Parking Systems Prospect LLC to encroach into
the public right-of-way of Prospect
Avenue S.E., East 1st Street, East 2nd
Street,
and
Ontario
Street
by
installing, using, and maintaining
foundations, street shoring, building
building
overhang,
curved
and
canopy, canopy and light, and overhead bridge; and authorizing the
director to apply for permits from the
State of Ohio to construct the overhead bridge.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Capital Projects is authorized to
issue a permit, revocable at the will
of Council, to USA Parking Systems
Prospect LLC, 1 Center Court Cleveland, Ohio 44115 (“Permittee”), to
encroach into the public right-ofway of Prospect Avenue S.E., East
1st Street, East 2nd Street, and
Ontario Street by installing, using,
and maintaining foundations, street
shoring, building and building overhang, curved canopy, canopy and
light, and overhead bridge, at the
following locations:
FOUNDATION/STREET SHORING
ENCROACHMENT INTO RIGHT-OFWAY OF ONTARIO STREET AND
PROSPECT AVENUE S.E.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Ontario
Street and Original Two Acre Lot Nos.
97 and 98 and further described as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of the
southerly line of Prospect Avenue
S.E. (82.5 feet wide), with the westerly line of East 2nd Street (50 feet
wide), said intersection being the
principal point of beginning of the
premises herein intended to be
described;
Course No. 1:
Thence S 78° 23' 04" W, along said
southerly line of Prospect Avenue
S.E., a distance of 255.57 feet to its
intersection with the easterly line of
Ontario Street (99 feet wide);
Course No. 2:
Thence S 33° 18' 27" E, along said
easterly line of Ontario Street, a distance of 78.08 feet to the northwesterly corner of land conveyed to Macron
Investment Co. (PPN 101-28-067) by
deed recorded in Volume 12147 Page
71 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Course No. 3:
Thence S 56° 41' 33" W, a distance
of 6.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 4:
Thence N 33° 18' 27" W, parallel to
and 6.00 feet by rectangular measurement from said easterly line of

1564

September 21, 2011
Ontario Street, a distance of 86.92 feet
to a point;
Course No. 5:
Thence N 78° 23' 04" E, parallel to
and 6.00 feet by rectangular measurement from said southerly line of
Prospect Avenue S.E., a distance of
272.44 feet to a point;
Course No. 6:
Thence S 11° 22' 24" E, parallel to
and 8.00 feet by rectangular measurement from said westerly line of East
2nd Street, a distance of 180.00 feet to
a point;
Course No. 7:
Thence N 78° 37' 36" E, a distance
of 5.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 8:
Thence S 11° 22' 24" E, parallel to
and 13.00 feet by rectangular measurement from said westerly line of
East 2nd Street, a distance of 47.41
feet to a point on the southerly line of
High Avenue S.E. (46.36 feet wide);
Course No. 9:
Thence S 78° 25' 48" W, along said
southerly line of High Avenue S.E., a
distance of 12.84 feet to the southeasterly corner of vacated High Avenue
S.E. as shown by the Vacation Plat of
Part of High Avenue S.E. and East 1st
Street recorded in Volume ________,
Page ________ of Cuyahoga County
Map records;
Course No. 10:
Thence N 11° 34' 12" W, along the
easterly line of said vacated High
Avenue S.E., a distance of 46.36 feet to
its intersection with said westerly
line of East 2nd Street;
Course No. 11:
Thence N 11° 22' 24" W, along said
westerly line of said East 2nd Street,
a distance of 175.06 feet to the principal point of beginning and containing
0.0943 acres (4,108 sq. ft.) of land as
calculated and described by Garrett
and Associates in August, 2011 be the
same more or less but subject to all
legal highways and easements of
record.
Bearings cited within the above
description are of an assumed meridian and are for the sole purpose of
determining angles.
Having a Lower Limit Elevation at
31.00 feet and an Upper Limit Elevation at 98.00 feet per City of Cleveland
Datum.
FOUNDATION/STREET SHORING
ENCROACHMENT INTO RIGHT-OFWAY OF ONTARIO STREET
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Ontario
Street and further described as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of the
southerly line of Prospect Avenue
S.E. (82.5 feet wide), with the easterly
line of Ontario Street (99 feet wide);
Thence S 33° 18' 27" E, along said
easterly line of Ontario Street, a distance of 138.08 feet to the southwesterly corner of land conveyed to
Macron Investment Co. (PPN 101 28067) by deed recorded in Volume 12147
Page 71 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records and the principal point of
beginning of the premises herein
intended to be described;

September 21, 2011
Course No. 1:
Thence continuing S 33° 18' 27" E,
along said easterly line of Ontario
Street, a distance of 50.16 feet to the
northerly line of Vacated High Ave.
S.E. as shown by the Vacation Plat of
part of High Avenue S.E. and East 1st
Street recorded in Volume _________,
Page ________ of Cuyahoga County
Map Records;
Course No. 2:
Thence S 78° 25' 48" W, a distance
of 6.46 feet to a point;
Course No. 3:
Thence N 33° 18' 27" W, parallel to
and 6.00 feet by rectangular measurement from said easterly line of
Ontario Street, a distance of 47.77 feet
to a point;
Course No. 4:
Thence N 56° 41' 33" E, a distance
of 6.00 feet to the principal point of
beginning and containing 0.0067
acres (294 sq. ft.) of land as calculated and described by Garrett and Associates in June, 2011 be the same more
or less but subject to all legal highways and easements of record.
Bearings cited within the above
description are of an assumed meridian and are for the sole purpose of
determining angles.
Having a Lower Limit Elevation at
31.00 feet and an Upper Limit Elevation at 98.00 feet per City of Cleveland
Datum.
BUILDING OVERHANG ENCROACHMENT INTO RIGHT-OF-WAY
ABOVE EAST 2nd STREET
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Original
Two Acre Lot No. 98 and further
described as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of the
southerly line of Prospect Avenue
S.E. (82.5 feet wide), with the westerly line of East 2nd Street (50 feet
wide) said intersection being the
principal point of beginning of the
premises herein intended to be
described;
Course No. 1:
Thence N 78° 23' 04" E, along said
southerly line of Prospect Avenue
S.E., a distance of 6.50 feet to a point;
Course No. 2:
Thence S 11° 22' 24" E, parallel to
and 6.50 feet by rectangular measurement from said westerly line of East
2nd Street, a distance of 221.43 feet to
a point on the southerly line of High
Avenue S.E. (46.36 feet wide);
Course No. 3:
Thence S 78° 25' 48" W, along said
southerly line of High Avenue S.E., a
distance of 6.34 feet to its intersection
with the easterly line of Vacated
High Avenue S.E. as shown by the
Vacation Plat recorded in Volume
________, Page ________ of Cuyahoga
County Map Records;
Course No. 4:
Thence N 11° 34' 12" W, along said
easterly line of Vacated High Avenue
S.E., a distance of 46.36 feet to the
intersection of the northerly line of
said High Avenue S.E. with the westerly line of said 2nd Street;
Course No. 5:
Thence N 11° 22' 24" W, along said
westerly line of East 2nd Street, a dis-

The City Record
tance of 175.06 feet to the principal
point of beginning and containing
0.0330 acres (1,435 sq. ft.) of land as
calculated and described by Garrett
and Associates in May, 2011 be the
same more or less but subject to all
legal highways and easements of
record.
Bearings cited within the above
description are of an assumed meridian and are for the sole purpose of
determining angles.
Having a Lower Limit Elevation at
103.00 feet and an Upper Limit Elevation at 165.00 feet per City of Cleveland Datum.
CURVED CANOPY ENCROACHMENT INTO RIGHT-OF-WAY
ABOVE ONTARIO STREET
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Ontario
Street and further described as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of the
southerly line of Prospect Avenue
S.E. (82.5 feet wide), with the easterly
line of Ontario Street (99 feet wide);
Thence S 33° 18' 27" E, along said
easterly line of Ontario Street, a distance of 138.08 feet to the southwesterly corner of land conveyed to
Macron Investment Co. (PPN 101 28067) by deed recorded in Volume 12147
Page 71 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records and the principal point of
beginning of the premises herein
intended to be described;
Course No. 1:
Thence continuing S 33° 18' 27" E,
along said easterly line of Ontario
Street, a distance of 50.16 feet to the
northerly line of Vacated High Ave.
S.E. as shown by the Vacation Plat of
Part of High Avenue S.E. and East 1st
Street recorded in Volume _________,
Page ________ of Cuyahoga County
Map Records;
Course No. 2:
Thence S 78° 25' 48" W, a distance
of 10.77 feet to a point;
Course No. 3:
Thence N 33° 18' 27" W, parallel to
and 10.00 feet by rectangular measurement from said easterly line of
Ontario Street, a distance of 46.18 feet
to a point;
Course No. 4:
Thence N 56° 41' 33" E, a distance
of 10.00 feet to the principal point of
beginning and containing 0.0111
acres (482 sq. ft.) of land as calculated and described by Garrett and Associates in June, 2011 be the same more
or less but subject to all legal highways and easements of record.
Bearings cited within the above
description are of an assumed meridian and are for the sole purpose of
determining angles.
Having a Lower Limit Elevation at
117.50 feet and an Upper Limit Elevation at 126.00 feet per City of Cleveland Datum.
CANOPY & LIGHT ENCROACHMENT INTO RIGHT-OF-WAY
ABOVE ONTARIO STREET AND
PROSPECT AVENUE S.E.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Ontario
Street and Original Two Acre Lot Nos.
97 and 98 and further described as follows;

1565

41
Beginning at the intersection of the
southerly line of Prospect Avenue
S.E. (82.5 feet wide), with the westerly line of East 2nd Street (50 feet
wide), said intersection being the
principal point of beginning of the
premises herein intended to be
described;
Course No. 1:
Thence S 78° 23' 04" W, along said
southerly line of Prospect Avenue
S.E., a distance of 255.57 feet to its
intersection with the easterly line of
Ontario Street (99 feet wide);
Course No. 2:
Thence S 33° 18' 27" E, along said
easterly line of Ontario Street, a distance of 78.08 feet to the northwesterly corner of land conveyed to Macron
Investment Co. (PPN 101-28-067) by
deed recorded in Volume 12147 Page
71 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
Course No. 3:
Thence S 56° 41' 33" W, a distance
of 6.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 4:
Thence N 33° 18' 27" W, parallel to
and 6.00 feet by rectangular measurement from said easterly line of
Ontario Street, a distance of 86.92 feet
to a point;
Course No. 5:
Thence N 78° 23' 04" E, parallel to
and 6.00 feet by rectangular measurement from said southerly line of
Prospect Avenue S.E., a distance of
264.44 feet to a point;
Course No. 6:
Thence S 11° 22' 24" E, a distance of
6.00 feet to the principal point of
beginning and containing 0.0472
acres (2054 sq. ft.) of land as calculated and described by Garrett and Associates in June, 2011 be the same more
or less but subject to all legal highways and easements of record.
Bearings cited within the above
description are of an assumed meridian and are for the sole purpose of
determining angles.
Having a Lower Limit Elevation at
94.00 feet and an Upper Limit Elevation at 165.00 feet per City of Cleveland Datum.
OVERHEAD BRIDGE ENCROACHMENT INTO RIGHT-OF-WAY
ABOVE ONTARIO STREET &
PROSPECT AVENUE S.E.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Ontario
Street and Original Two Acre Lot Nos.
97 and 84 and further described as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of the
southerly line of Prospect Avenue
S.E. (82.5 feet wide), with the easterly
line of Ontario Street (99 feet wide)
said intersection being the principal
point of beginning of the premises
herein intended to be described;
Course No. 1:
Thence S 33° 18' 27" E, along said
easterly line of Ontario Street, a distance of 29.35 feet to a point;
Course No. 2:
Thence N 76° 06' 56" W, a distance
of 169.39 feet to a point on the northerly line of Prospect Avenue N.W. (100
feet wide);

42
Course No. 3:
Thence N 56° 41' 33" E, along said
northerly line of Prospect Avenue
N.W., a distance of 16.11 feet to its
intersection with the westerly line of
said Ontario Street;
Course No. 4:
Thence N 33° 18' 27" W, along said
westerly line of Ontario Street, a distance of 22.34 feet to a point;
Course No. 5:
Thence S 76° 06' 56" E, a distance of
168.09 feet to a point on said southerly
line of Prospect Avenue S.E.;
Course No. 6:
Thence S 78° 23' 04" W, along said
southerly line of Prospect Avenue
S.E., a distance of 16.38 feet to the
principal point of beginning and containing 0.0953 acres (4,152 sq. ft.) of
land as calculated and described by
Garrett and Associates in June, 2011
be the same more or less but subject
to all legal highways and easements
of record.
Bearings cited within the above
description are of an assumed meridian and are for the sole purpose of
determining angles.
Having a Lower Limit Elevation at
108.50 feet and an Upper Limit Elevation at 129.50 feet per City of Cleveland Datum.
FOUNDATION & BUILDING
ENCROACHMENT INTO RIGHT-OFWAY OF EAST 1st STREET
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Original
Two Acre Lot No. 97 further described
as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of the
southerly line of Prospect Avenue
S.E., (82.5 feet wide), with the westerly line of East 1st Street (10 feet
wide) said intersection being the
principal point of beginning of the
premises herein intended to be
described;
Course No. 1:
Thence N 78° 23' 04" E, along said
southerly line of Prospect Avenue, a
distance of 10.00 feet to a point on the
easterly line of said East 1st Street;
Course No. 2:
Thence S 11° 27' 00" E, along said
easterly line of East 1st Street, a distance of 97.49 feet to northerly line of
Vacated East 1st Street as shown by
the Vacation Plat of Part of East 1st
Street recorded in Volume ______,
Page ______ of Cuyahoga county Map
Records;
Course No. 3:
Thence S 78° 33' 00" W, along said
northerly line of Vacated East 1st
Street, a distance of 10.00 feet to its
intersection with said westerly line of
East 1st Street;
Course No. 4:
Thence N 11° 27' 00" W, along said
westerly line of East 1st Street, a distance of 97.46 feet the principal point
of beginning and containing 0.0224
acres (975 sq. ft.) of land according to
a survey by Garrett and Associates in
May, 2011 be the same more or less but
subject to all legal highways and
easements of record.
Bearings cited within the above
description are of an assumed meridian and are for the sole purpose of
determining angles.

The City Record
Having a Lower Limit Elevation at
7.50 feet and an Upper Limit Elevation at 165.00 feet per City of Cleveland Datum.
Legal Descriptions approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the prior
written consent of the Director of
Capital Projects. That the encroaching structures permitted by this ordinance shall conform to plans and
specifications approved by the Manager of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all
other required permits, including but
not limited to Building Permits,
before installing the encroachments.
Section 3. That the Director of Law
shall prepare the permit authorized
by this ordinance and shall incorporate such additional provisions as the
director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
The permit shall be issued only when,
in the opinion of the Director of Law,
Permittee has properly indemnified
the City against any loss that may
result from the encroachments permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right of
entry to the encroachment locations.
Section 5. That the Director of Capital Projects is authorized to apply for
any permits necessary from the State
of Ohio to construct the overhead
bridge.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 12, 2011.

Ord. No. 1111-11.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brancatelli and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 605-09,
passed June 1, 2009, relating to a contract with Schofield Properties LLC to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance the removal
of the non-historic facade of the commercial building located at 2000 East
9th Street to extend the performance
deadline to April 30, 2012.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 605-09, passed June 1, 2009,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
in File Nos. 605-09-A and 605-09-B,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, and are approved in all
respects and shall not be charged
without
additional
legislative
authority.
Section 2. That existing Section 2 of
Ordinance No. 605-09, passed June 1,
2009, is repealed.

1566

September 21, 2011
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1201-11.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter into
an agreement with American Legal
Publishing Corporation for the professional
services
necessary
to
update, print and bind the Charter
and Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, to provide all necessary
supplemental or replacement pages to
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances, to provide webhosting services and regular on-line updates to
the Charter and the Code, to provide
an annual review and comparison to
Code Parts IV and VI to the Ohio
Revised Code, and other services as
may be deemed necessary for Code
supplementation, and to authorize
any amendments to the contract that
may be necessary for additional printings of the Codified Ordinances during the term.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council (“Clerk”) is authorized to enter
into an agreement with American
Legal Publishing Corporation (“Consultant”) for the professional services necessary to update, print and
bind the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
(together, the “Code”), to provide all
necessary supplemental or replacement pages to the Code, to provide
webhosting services and regular online updates to the Code, to provide
an annual review and comparison of
Code Parts IV and VI to the Ohio
Revised Code, and any other services as may be necessary for continued and efficient Code supplementation, and to authorize any
amendments to the contract that
may be necessary during the term
in order to provide additional printings of the Charter and/or the Code,
and additional binders, inserts and
labels
The contract shall begin on the
Effective Date and shall continue for
one year; the Clerk may exercise four
(4) separate options to renew any or
all portions of the agreement for additional one year periods, cancelable
upon 30 days’ written notice by the
Clerk. Payment for services completed under the agreement, and any
amendments to the agreement during
the original term or the term of any
exercised renewal shall be from Fund
No. 01 SF 001.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

The City Record

September 21, 2011
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 12, 2011.

Ord. No. 1202-11.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with The Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission to provide financial assistance to finance costs,
including costs incurred by the Cleveland Special Events Corporation,
associated with marketing and promotion of the Gay Games 2014.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with The Greater Cleveland
Sports Commission to provide financial assistance to finance costs,
including costs incurred by the
Cleveland Special Events Corporation, associated with marketing and
promotion of the Gay Games 2014.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed an amount of
$587,752.40 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 17 SF 652, RQS 9501, RL 2011176.
Section 3. That the agreement and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 12, 2011.

Ord. No. 1203-11.
By Council Members Pruitt and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving
in its entirety the Fact-Finder’s
report, findings and recommendations in the matter of the City of
Cleveland and City and County Waste
Paper Drivers Teamsters Local 244.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, having duly considered the Fact-Finder’s report,
findings and recommendations in
the matter of the City of Cleveland
and the City and County Waste
Paper Drivers Teamsters Local 244,
which were e-mailed to the City on
September
7,
2011,
this
Council
accepts the Fact-Finder’s report,
findings, and recommendations in
their entirety, including the agree-

ments reached between the City and
the union, as set forth in the executive summary placed in File No.
1203-11-A,
which
provide,
among
other things, for an increase in the
salary and wages for members of
the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase

Approximate Date
of Increase*

0%
0%
3%

April 1, 2010
April 1, 2011
April 1, 2012

* Wage increases shall be effective as
follows:
(a) If April 1st falls in the first
week of a pay period, then the wage
increase shall be effective commencing at the beginning of that pay period; or
(b) If April 1st falls in the second
week of a pay period, then the wage
increase shall be effective commencing at the beginning of the next pay
period.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1227-11.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to extend the
Agreement with Erin McIntyre, City
Contract No. 0101-PS-2011-034, to
December 31, 2011.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council
is authorized to extend the Agreement with Erin McIntyre (Consultant), City Contract No. 0101-PS-2011034, to December 31, 2011. The Consultant shall be paid on an hourly basis
in an amount not to exceed 10.00 per
hour and shall be certified from fund
numbers
632000-01-010100
and/or
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1230-11.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part of
the Land Reutilization Program and
located at 8011 Central Avenue to
Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland has
elected to adopt and implement the

1567

43
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive lands situated
within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Revised
Code and Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property to
be sold under this ordinance is more
fully described as follows:
Permanent Parcel No. 119-27-070
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State of
Ohio; as Sublot No. 9 in the Holden and
Rowe’s Subdivision of part of the
Original 100 Acre Lot 407, Plat Book 3,
Page 59, Cuyahoga County Records,
50 feet on the northerly side of Central Avenue and extending back of
equal width 148 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
executed within six (6) months of the
effective date of this ordinance. If all
of the documents are not executed
within six (6) months of the effective
date of this ordinance, or such additional time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this ordinance shall be repealed and
shall be of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall not be less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such terms
and conditions, restrictions and
covenants as are deemed necessary or
appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall be
made by official deed prepared by the
Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of Cleveland. The deed shall contain such provisions as may be necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest including such restrictive covenants and
reversionary interests as may be specified by the Board of Control, the
Director of Community Development
or the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

44
Ord. No. 1231-11.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to the
Slavic Village Development to stretch
banners at Broadway Avenue (No.
Side 2PW of East 65th and Broadway
So. Side 3PW of 65th) for the period
from September 23, 2011 to October 22,
2011, inclusive, publicizing the Broadway Farmer’s Market.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Slavic Village
Development to install, maintain
and remove banners at Broadway
Avenue (No. Side 2PW of East 65th
and Broadway So. Side 3PW of 65th)
for the period from September 23,
2011 to October 22, 2011, inclusive.
Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1232-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to the
Tremont West Development Corporation to stretch banners on West 14th
north of Starkweather and south of
Fairfield Avenues for the period from
October 13, 2011 to October 21, 2011,
inclusive, publicizing the Tremont
Farmers’ Market.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Tremont West
Development Corporation to install,
maintain and remove banners on
West 14th north of Starkweather
and south of Fairfield Avenues for

The City Record
the period from October 13, 2011 to
October 21, 2011, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a banner will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said banner
and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1233-11.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Public Service to issue permits to the
Cromwell Avenue Block Club to
stretch banners on Cromwell Avenue
between East 116th & East 120th for
the period from September 13, 2011 to
October 12, 2011, inclusive, promoting
community pride.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the Cromwell
Avenue Block Club to stretch banners on Cromwell Avenue between
East 116th & East 120th for the period from September 13, 2011 to October 12, 2011, inclusive. Said banner
shall be approved by the Director of
Public Service, in consultation with
the Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed
or permitted on said banner and
said
banner
shall
be
removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

1568

September 21, 2011
Ord. No. 1234-11.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Famicos Foundation to stretch banners
along Ashbury Avenue between East
105th and East 118th, for the period
from September 25, 2011 to October 24,
2011, inclusive, celebrating Ashbury
Avenue neighborhood history and
pride.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Famicos Foundation to install, maintain and remove
along
Ashbury
Avenue
banners
between East 105th and East 118th,
for a period from September 25, 2011
to October 24, 2011, inclusive. Said
banner shall be approved by the
Director of Public Service, in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1235-11.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 34th Annual “Walk of
Hope”, on October 8, 2011, sponsored
by the Catholic Charities Disability
Services and Ministries.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 34th Annual
“Walk for Hope,” sponsored by the
Catholic Charities Disability Services and Ministries, on October 8,
2011, leave OLA/St. Joseph Center
parking lot on Kenilworth; head
east on Kenilworth to W. 11th
Street; turn right on W. 11th to
Starkweather; turn right on Starkweather to W. 14th Street; turn right
on W. 14th to Kenilworth; turn right
on Kenilworth to W. 11th; turn left
onto W. 11th and walk to University Road; turn right on to University and walk to W. 10th Street; turn
right on to W. 10th and walk to stop

September 21, 2011
sign; veer left on to Professor
Avenue—staying on the right hand
side of the street and walk to Jefferson; turn right on to Jefferson
and walk to Starkweather—cross W.
14th to the west side of W. 14th;
turn right on to W. 14th Street—
cross Kenilworth and return to
OLA/St. Joseph Center on the left,
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all
liability
resulting
from
the
issuance of the same, to the extent
and in form satisfactory to the
Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1242-11.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance repealing
Resolution
No.
1133-11
adopted
August 17, 2011.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of
the Ohio Revised Code; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Resolution No.
1133-11 adopted August 17, 2011 is
hereby repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1244-11.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency ordinance repealing
Resolution
No.
1167-11
adopted
August 17, 2011.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of
the Ohio Revised Code; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Resolution No.
1167-11 adopted August 17, 2011 is
hereby repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1246-11.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance repealing
Resolution
No.
1149-11
adopted
August 17, 2011.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of
the Ohio Revised Code; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Resolution No.
1149-11 adopted August 17, 2011 is
hereby repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

Ord. No. 1249-11.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance repealing
Resolution
No.
1169-11
adopted
August 17, 2011.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, prosperity, safety and
welfare pursuant to Section 4303.26 of
the Ohio Revised Code; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1569

45
Section 1. That Resolution No.
1169-11 adopted August 17, 2011 is
hereby repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed September 12, 2011.
Effective September 14, 2011.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, September 19, 2011
9:00 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair;
J. Johnson, Vice Chair; Conwell,
Keane, Kelley, Reed, Zone.
11:00 a.m.
Public Service Committee: Present:
Miller, Chair; Cummins, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Dow, Keane, Polensek,
Sweeney. Authorized Absence: K.
Johnson, Pruitt. Pro tempore: Zone,
J. Johnson.
2:00 p.m.
Committee:
Present:
Finance
Sweeney, Chair; Kelley, Vice Chair;
Brady,
Brancatelli,
Cleveland,
Keane, Miller, Mitchell, Polensek,
Westbrook.
Absence:
Authorized
Pruitt.
5:00 p.m.
Personnel & Operations Committee: Present: Westbrook, Chair; Conwell, Kelley, K. Johnson, Mitchell,
Sweeney, Zone.

Tuesday, September 20, 2011
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Brancatelli, Chair; Dow, Vice Chair; Cummins,
Miller,
Westbrook,
Zone.
Authorized Absence: Cimperman, J.
Johnson, Pruitt.
Wednesday, September 21, 2011
1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee:
Present:
Kelley,
Chair;
Brady,
Vice Chair; Cummins, Dow, Miller,
Polensek. Authorized Absence: Conwell, Pruitt, Westbrook.

The City Record

46

September 21, 2011

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

AGREEMENTS
Mc Intyre, Erin — City Council — Extend Contract No. 0101-PS-2011-034 (O 1227-11) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Pleasant Community Zone — Community Empowerment Mobilization Program (
Ward 01 NCF) (O 1297-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — agreement — Gay Games 2014 (O 1202-11) . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — Rock Oho Caesars, LLC. & USA Parking Systems — Accept Gift Of High
Ave. Sewer Relining (O 1292-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1548
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529

APPROPRIATIONS
2011 Second Transfer Ordinance For Restricted Income Tax (R.I.T.) (O 1290-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1548
Appropriations — Additional — Three Hundred Thousand ($300,000) — Enterprise Funds
(O 1289-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547

Banners
Cromwell Avenue Block Club — Cromwell Ave., (Between E. 116th St. & E. 120th St.) — Sept.
13 To Oct. 12 — Community Pride (Ward 06) (O 1233-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Famicos Foundation — Ashbury Ave. (Between E. 105th & E. 118th) — Sept. 25 To Oct. 24 —
Ashbury Avenue Neighborhood History And Pride (Ward 09) (O 1234-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slavic Village Development — various locations — Sept. 23 To Oct. 22 — Broadway Farmer’s
Market (Ward 12) (O 1231-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont West Development Corp. — West 14 St. (North Of Starkweather & South Of Fairfield
Ave.) — Oct. 13 To Oct. 21 — Tremont Farmers’ Market (Ward 03) (O 1232-11). . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Aetna Road, 7521, (Ward 12) – Averell Lee, owner — appeal adopted on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-49-11) .
Algonac Road, 1779, (Ward 10) – Felicia Fox, owner — appeal resolved on 9/14/11
(Doc. A-57-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ashbury Avenue, 11600, (Ward 9) – Desarea Strong, owner — appeal resolved on 9/14/11
(Doc. A-120-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bridge Avenue, 4719, (Ward 15) – Sonia Sanchez, owner — appeal adopted on 9/14/11
(Doc. A-25-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Avenue, 5620, (Ward 12) – Slavic Village Developement (Villa Montessori Center),
owner — no action on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-37-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Colonnade Road, 1812, (Ward 10) – Claude Villette, owner — appeal resolved on
9/14/11 (Doc. A-34-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Continental Avenue, 12013, (Ward 4) – Lance A. Williams, owner — appeal postponed
to 9/28/11 on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-58-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Croton Avenue, 3725, (Ward 5) – Acorn Development, LLC — George Troicky, owner — appeal
rescheduled to 9/28/11 on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-257-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deise Avenue, 13705, (Ward 10) – Cleveland Restoration Group, owner — appeal resolved on
9/14/11 (Doc. A-63-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dolloff Road, 5327, (Ward 5) – JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., owner — appeal adopted
on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-199-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 112th Street, 1112, (Ward 15) – Chase Home Finance c/o IBM Lender Business Process
Services, mortgagee — appeal adopted on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-88-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 112th Street, 1112, (Ward 9) – U.S. Bank, N.A. c/o Wells Fargo Bank NA, mortgagee —
appeal adopted on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-53-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 115th Street, 1331, (Ward 9) – Terence Coffey, owner — appeal postponed to 9/28/11
on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-55-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 162nd Street, 664, (Ward 11) – Bruce M. Robertson, owner — appeal resolved on
9/14/11 (Doc. A-59-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 162nd Street, 695 , (Ward 11) – David N. Imayeguahi, owner — appeal adopted on
9/14/11 (Doc. A-40-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 163rd Street, 384, (Ward 11) – Northeast Shores Development Corp., owner — extension
of time granted on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-23-10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 70th Street, 2197, (Ward 5) – Dolores E. Lee, owner — appeal resolved on
9/14/11 (Doc. A-62-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 86th Street, 2246, (Ward 6) – Jermaine Jackson, owner — appeal resolved on 9/14/11
(Doc. A-41-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gertrude Avenue, 6616, (Ward 12) – Cleveland Restoration Group, owner — appeal resolved
on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-74-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holmes Avenue, Front, 15910, (Ward 11) – Dennis A. Pahner, owner — appeal adopted
on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-107-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holmes Avenue, Rear, 15914, (Ward 11) – Dennis A. Pahner, owner — appeal adopted on
9/14/11 (Doc. A-108-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1570

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1556
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1557
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1556
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1556
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1556
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1557
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1557
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1556
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1556
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1557
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1556
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1557
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558

September 21, 2011

The City Record

47

Lakeshore Boulevard, 15602-24, (Ward 11) – Selar, Inc., owner — appeal adopted on 9/14/11
(Doc. A-50-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeshore Boulevard, 17805, (Ward 11) – Neff Lake Apts., LLC, owner — appeal adopted on
9/14/11 (Doc. A-9-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lancelot Avenue, 12535, (Ward 2) – Dennis Casey/Caden Development, owner — appeal
resolved on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-45-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lansing Avenue, 6316, (Ward 12) – Martin D’Amico, owner — appeal resolved on 9/14/11
(Doc. A-130-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nottingham Road, 19225, (Ward 11) – Patrick McSweeney, owner — appeal withdrawn on
9/14/11 (Doc. A-159-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ontario Avenue, 2105, (Ward 3) – U.S.A. Parking Systems — Ellsworth Grimsley, owner —
appeal resolved on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-278-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parkhill Avenue, 12503, (Ward 4) – Windy F. Siegfried, owner — appeal resolved on 9/14/11
(Doc. A-3-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Simon Avenue, 8122, (Ward 8) – Chandler Taylor, owner — appeal adopted on 9/14/11
(Doc. A-203-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Starkweather Avenue, 1205, (Ward 3) – St. George Antiochian Orthodox Church, owner —
appeal adopted on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-51-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Velour Avenue, 14710, (Ward 10) – Ohio Properties, LLC, owner — appeal adopted on 9/14/11
(Doc. A-44-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 127th Street, 3520, (Ward 17) – Michelle D. Kinard, owner — appeal adopted on
9/14/11 (Doc. A-52-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 128th Street, 3515, (Ward 17) – Julia Zilch, owner — no action (property demolished)
on 9/14/11 (Doc. A-54-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 30th Street, 2724, (Ward 14) – Nayra Perez, owner — appeal resolved on 9/14/11
(Doc. A-61-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 7th Street, 3009, (Ward 15) – Angio Co., owner — appeal adopted on 9/14/11
(Doc. A-47-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1556
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1557
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1557
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1557
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1556
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1557
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Electrical engineering and planning services — per Ord. 1596-10 to Middough Inc. — Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 448-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552
Work order management and inventory management system — modify Contract #68653 per BOC
Res. 503-08, 146-10 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 447-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552

Board of Control — Finance Department
Computer hardware, software, printers, accessories, parts and supplies — per Ord. 1350-10 —
all bids rejected (BOC Res. 446-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in August 2011 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 445-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552

Board of Control — Fire Division
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to B.P. Britches, Inc., d.b.a. Christopher’s —
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 454-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Cleveland Uniform — Dept. of Public
Safety (BOC Res. 455-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Novak Supply — Dept. of Public
Safety (BOC Res. 456-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Schwarz Uniform — Dept. of Public Safety
(BOC Res. 457-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Stonewall Uniform — Dept. of Public
Safety (BOC Res. 458-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1554

Board of Control — Garrett A. Morgan Water Works Plant
Raw Water Pump Station Mechanical, Electrical and Misc. Improvements Project #608 — per
Ord. 816-11 to Kokosing Construction Company, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 449-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Centralized Document Management System design and configure — per Ord. 1968-07 to Hyland
Software, Inc. (BOC Res. 452-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553
Planning study preparation — modify Contract #PS2010-251 per BOC Res. 325-10 (BOC Res. 453-11) . . . . . . . . . . . 1553

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Centralized Document Management System design and configure — per Ord. 1968-07 to Hyland
Software, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 452-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553
Electrical engineering and planning services — per Ord. 1596-10 to Middough Inc. —
Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 448-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552
Planning study preparation — modify Contract #PS2010-251 per BOC Res. 325-10 — Dept. of
Port Control (BOC Res. 453-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553

1571

The City Record

48

September 21, 2011

Work order management and inventory management system — modify Contract #68653 per BOC
Res. 503-08, 146-10 — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 447-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Morgan Raw Water Pump Station Mechanical, Electrical and Misc. Improvements Project #608 —
per Ord. 816-11 to Kokosing Construction Company, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 449-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to
Division of Fire (BOC Res. 454-11) . .
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to
(BOC Res. 455-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to
(BOC Res. 458-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

B.P. Britches, Inc., d.b.a. Christopher’s —
..................................................
Cleveland Uniform — Division of Fire
..................................................
Novak Supply — Division of Fire (BOC Res. 456-11). . . .
Schwarz Uniform — Division of Fire (BOC Res. 457-11)
Stonewall Uniform — Division of Fire
..................................................

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1554

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Electrical engineering and planning services — per Ord. 1596-10 to Middough Inc. —
Division of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 448-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fossil fuel, off-road and supporting services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Great Lakes
Petroleum Co. (BOC Res. 450-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fossil fuel, off-road and supporting services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to O.E. Meyer Co.
(BOC Res. 451-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Raw Water Pump Station Mechanical, Electrical and Misc. Improvements Project #608 —
per Ord. 816-11 to Kokosing Construction Company, Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 449-11) .
Work order management and inventory management system — modify Contract #68653 per BOC
Res. 503-08, 146-10 — Division of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 447-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 1552
. . . . . . . . . 1553
. . . . . . . . . 1553
. . . . . . . . . 1553
. . . . . . . . . 1552

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in August 2011 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 445-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Fossil fuel, off-road and supporting services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Great Lakes
Petroleum Co. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 450-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fossil fuel, off-road and supporting services — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to O.E. Meyer Co. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 451-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to B.P. Britches, Inc., d.b.a. Christopher’s —
Division of Fire, Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 454-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Cleveland Uniform — Division of Fire, Dept.
of Public Safety (BOC Res. 455-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Novak Supply — Division of Fire, Dept.
of Public Safety (BOC Res. 456-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Schwarz Uniform — Division of Fire, Dept. of
Public Safety (BOC Res. 457-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Uniform clothing — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 to Stonewall Uniform — Division of Fire, Dept.
of Public Safety (BOC Res. 458-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1554
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1554

Board of Control — Water Division
Morgan Raw Water Pump Station Mechanical, Electrical and Misc. Improvements Project #608 —
per Ord. 816-11 to Kokosing Construction Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 449-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1553

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Broadway Avenue, 8411, (Ward 12) – Community Assessment and Treatment Services, owner —
appeal granted and adopted on 9/19/11 (Cal. 11-152) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Canterberry Road, 17902, (Ward 11) – Paul Bearden, owner — appeal withdrawn on 9/19/11
(Cal. 11-159) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Avenue, 4305, (Ward 14) – Andres Velez, owner, and Joe Ramos, agent — appeal heard
on 9/19/11 (Cal. 11-133) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 92nd Street, 1443, (Ward 7) – Sherit Johnson, owner — appeal heard on 9/19/11
(Cal. 11-154) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 8601, (Ward 6) – Euclid Avenue Church of God, by and through counsel
Kenneth J. Fisher — appeal heard on 9/19/11 (Cal. 11-156) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1572

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555

September 21, 2011

The City Record

Fulton Road, 1721, (Ward 3) – Robert Schmidt, owner — appeal postponed to 10/10/11
on 9/19/11 (Cal. 11-157) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4888, (Ward 13) – Nick Varlamos, owner, and Hank Lewon, prospective tenant
appeal heard on 9/19/11 (Cal. 11-130) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 3801, (Ward 3) – Van Kim Enterprises LLC, owner and William Ronny,
tenant — appeal granted and adopted on 9/19/11 (Cal. 11-82) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 4029-33, (Ward 3) – Wai Hung Ltd., owner, and Raseem Parker,
prospective tenant — appeal granted and adopted on 9/19/11 (Cal. 11-129) . . . . . . . . . . .

49
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555
—
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Martin Luther King Jr. Drive, 2656, (Ward 6) – Eunice Spires, owner — appeal to be heard
on 10/3/11 (Cal. 11-164) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mayfield Road, 12204, (Ward 9) – Clara’s Place LLC and Rosanne Passalacqua, owner
and Anthony Nunes, tenant — appeal to be heard on 10/3/11 (Cal. 11-163) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memphis Avenue, 3430, (Ward 13) – Ewazen Management, Ltd., owner and Makia Santiago,
tenant — appeal to be heard on 10/3/11 (Cal. 11-161) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 10th Street, 2215, (Ward 3) – Nicholas Graor, owner — appeal to be heard on 10/3/11
(Cal. 11-160) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1555

BRIDGES
Amend Sect. 23 Of Ord. No. 1612-10 — Removal & Replacement Of Commercial Road Bridge
(O 1097-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551

CAPITAL PROJECTS
Adoption Of The Complete And Green Street Policies And Guidelines (O 798-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 23 Of Ord. No. 1612-10 — Removal & Replacement Of Commercial Road Bridge
(O 1097-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cromwell Avenue Block Club — Cromwell Ave., (Between E. 116th St. & E. 120th St.) — Sept.
13 To Oct. 12 — Community Pride (Ward 06) (O 1233-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 1st St. And High Ave., S.E. — Vacate A Portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(O 1304-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Famicos Foundation — Ashbury Ave. (Between E. 105th & E. 118th) — Sept. 25 To Oct. 24 —
Ashbury Avenue Neighborhood History And Pride (Ward 09) (O 1234-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
High Ave., S.E. — Intention To Vacate A Portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 10)
(R 1099-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., And East 2nd Street And Ontario St., — Encroach Into Right — Of — Way —
Maintaining Foundations, Street Shoring Building Overhang, Canopy And Light — USA
Parking Systems Prospect LLC. (O 1094-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slavic Village Development — various locations — Sept. 23 To Oct. 22 — Broadway Farmer’s
Market (Ward 12) (O 1231-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont West Development Corp. — West 14 St. (North Of Starkweather & South Of Fairfield
Ave.) — Oct. 13 To Oct. 21 — Tremont Farmers’ Market (Ward 03) (O 1232-11). . . . . . . . . . .
Walk for Hope, 34th Annual — Permit — Oct. 8 — Catholic Charities Disability Services And
Ministries (Ward 03) (O 1235-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1559

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1564
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568

CITY AUDIT COMMISSION
Amend Sect. 154.04 — Meetings And Attendance Of The City Audit Committee (O 1302-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1549

CITY COUNCIL
Charter And Codified Ordinances — Parts IV And VI- Webhosting Services, Update, Print And
Bind — American Legal Publishing Corp. (O 1201-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1566
Mc Intyre, Erin — City Council — Extend Contract No. 0101-PS-2011-034 (O 1227-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567

City of Cleveland Bids
Electrical motors, pumps and ancillary equipment — Department of Port Control — per C.O.
Sec. 181.101 — bid due October 14, 2011 (advertised 9/14/2011 and 9/21/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fencing and gates — Department of Port Control — per Ord. 808-111 — bid due October 14,
2011 (advertised 9/14/2011 and 9/21/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harley-Davidson motorcycle parts and labor — Department of Public Works — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1330-A-10 — bid due October 6, 2011
(advertised 9/14/2011 and 9/21/2011). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ice rescue equipment — Department of Public Safety — Division of Fire — per Ord. 813-10 —
bid due October 14, 2011 (advertised 9/14/2011 and 9/21/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meyer snow plow / spreader equipment parts and labor — Department of Public Works —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1330-A-10 — bid due October 6,
2011 (advertised 9/14/2011 and 9/21/2011) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trucks, large capacity and equipment with operators, rental of — Department of Port
Control — per Ord. 598-11 — bid due October 14, 2011 (advertised 9/14/2011 and 9/21/2011) .

1573

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1559

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1559

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1559

The City Record

50

September 21, 2011

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
E. 116th St. (Martin Luther King Jr. Dr.) (Between Corlett Ave. & Dove Ave.) — Change Use
District (Ward 02) (O 1308-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 131 St. (East Side From Melzer Ave. To Svec Ave.) — Change Use, Area Districts (Ward
02)(O 1311-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 99th St. At Miles Ave., (North & South Sides) — Change Use District (Ward 02) (O 1312-11) . . .
East 110th Harvard Park” (Between E. 108th & E 110th St. / Harvard Ave.) — Change Name —
“Oleatha Wilson Park “ (Ward 02) (O 1300-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 1st St. And High Ave., S.E. — Vacate A Portion (Ward 03) (O 1304-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. (Between Burgess Rd. & Cliffview Rd.) — Change Use, Area And Height District
(Ward 10) (O 961-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fenwick Ave. — Change Use District (Ward 15) (O 930-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Ave. (North & South Sides Between E. 136th St. & E. 141st St.) — Change Use , Area
District (Ward 02) (O 1315-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
High Ave., S.E. — Intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 10)
(R 1099-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
John P. Green Place At Harvard Ave (East & West Sides) — Change Use, Area And Height
Districts (Ward 02) (O 1313-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meech Ave., Cassius Ave., Erie Rail Rd. & Harvard Ave., — Change The Use District (Ward
02) (O 1307-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., (North & South Sides Between E. 114th St. & E. 138th St.) — Change Use, Area
And Height Districts (Ward 02) (O 1306-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., (South Side Between E. 116th St. & E. 128th St.) — Change Use, Area And Height
Districts (Ward 02) (O 1309-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., (South Side Between E. 93rd St & Broadway Ave.) — Change Use District (Ward
02) (O 1305-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., Broadway Ave., & E. 93rd St. — Change Use, Area, And Height District (Ward
02) (O 1314-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Park Ave., Harvard Ave., E. 93rd St. & E. 91st St. — Change Use, Area And Height
Districts (Ward 02) (O 1310-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Side Aetna Rd. (E. 71st St. & E. 72nd St.) — Change Use, Area And Height District
(Ward 12) (O 838-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tacoma Ave. (E. 105th St. East To Parkwood Dr.) — Add Secondary And Honorary Designation
Of “Rev. Dr. E. Theophilus Caviness Way” (Ward(s) 08, 02) (O 1303-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warner Road And Tioga Ave. (Corner Lot) — change name — “ Mill Creek Falls Family Park”
(Ward 02) (O 1301-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1536
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1540
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1541
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1549
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1545
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1559
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1542
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1534
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1537
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1543
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1538
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1549
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1549

CLERK OF COUNCIL
Charter And Codified Ordinances — Parts IV And VI — Webhosting Services, Update, Print
And Bind — American Legal Publishing Corp. (O 1201-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1566
Mc Intyre, Erin — City Council — Extend Contract No. 0101-PS-2011-034 (O 1227-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567

CODIFIED ORDINANCES
Amend Sect(S) 551.111 & 551.991 — Relating To Civil Infractions For Waste Collection
(O 1291-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1528
Amend Sect. 154.04 — Meetings And Attendance Of The City Audit Committee (O 1302-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1549
Charter And Codified Ordinances — Parts IV And VI — Webhosting Services, Update, Print
And Bind — American Legal Publishing Corp. (O 1201-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1566

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
City And County Waste Paper Drivers Teamsters Local 244 — Approve Fact — Finder’s Report —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1203-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Central Ave., 8011 — PPN 119-27-070 — Land Reutilization Program — Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corp. (Ward 06) (O 1230-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567
Mt. Pleasant Community Zone — agreement — Community Empowerment Mobilization
Program (Ward 01 NCF) (O 1297-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1548

CONDOLENCES
Bowman, James L. (R 1325-11) . . .
Gardner, Jay Douglas (R 1326-11)
Mc Cafferty, Kathryn (R 1328-11)
Stanton, Thomas F. (R 1327-11) . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1527
1527
1527
1527

Calamante, Joseph & Patricia (R 1329-11) . . . . . . . .
Clark, Richard F. (R 1331-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Retired/Retirable Irish Police Society (R 1330-11)
Tufts, Lelia B. (R 1332-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1527
1527
1527
1527

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

CONGRATULATIONS

1574

September 21, 2011

The City Record

51

CONTRACTS
Amend Sect. 2 Of Ord. No. 605-09 — Schofield Properites LLC — Extend Performance Deadline
To April 30, 2012 (Ward 03) (O 1111-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 23 Of Ord. No. 1612-10 — Removal & Replacement Of Commercial Road Bridge
(O 1097-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charter And Codified Ordinances — Parts IV And VI- Webhosting Services, Update, Print And
Bind — American Legal Publishing Corp. (O 1201-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Apply & Accept Jobs Ready Site Grant — Clean Up & Redevelopment
Of Bldg. 42 At 3615 Superior Ave. (Ward 08) (O 1294-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Assign Contract No. 54918 With Rialto Corporation To P & M Ohio
City LLC — Contract Amendment (O 1298-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise Option to renew Contract No. Ct 1511 Ps 2010-124 with Oracle America, Inc.
(O 1214-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mc Intyre, Erin — City Council — Extend Contract No. 0101-PS-2011-034 (O 1227-11) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utilities Department — Various types of valves, actuators, and appurtenances — Water
Division (O 1293-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1566
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1566
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1548
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529

COUNTY AUDITOR
Tax Levies, 2012 — Accepting And Certifying — Budget Commission Of Cuyahoga County
(R 1222-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
Amend Sect. 2 Of Ord. No. 605-09 — Schofield Properites LLC. — Extend Performance Deadline
To April 30, 2012 (Ward 03) (O 1111-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply & Accept Jobs Ready Site Grant — Clean Up & Redevelopment Of Bldg. 42 At 3615
Superior Ave. (Ward 08) (O 1294-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Assign Contract No. 54918 With Rialto Corporation To P & M Ohio City LLC — Contract
Amendment (O 1298-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — agreement — Gay Games 2014 (O 1202-11) . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1566
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1548
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567

Encroachment
Prospect Ave., And East 2nd Street And Ontario St., — Encroach Into Right — Of — Way —
Maintaining Foundations, Street Shoring Building Overhang, Canopy And Light — USA
Parking Systems Prospect LLC. (O 1094-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1564

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
Appropriations — Additional — Three Hundred Thousand ($300,000) — Enterprise Funds
(O 1289-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547

FINANCE DEPARTMENT
2011 Second Transfer Ordinance For Restricted Income Tax (R.I.T.) (O 1290-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appropriations — Additional — Three Hundred Thousand ($300,000) — Enterprise Funds
(O 1289-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charter And Codified Ordinances — Parts IV And VI — Webhosting Services, Update, Print
And Bind — American Legal Publishing Corp. (O 1201-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City And County Waste Paper Drivers Teamsters Local 244 — Approve Fact — Finder’s Report —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1203-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 1st St. And High Ave., S.E. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(O 1304-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise Option to renew Contract No. Ct 1511 Ps 2010-124 with Oracle America, Inc.
(O 1214-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire Division Pension Pick-Up (R 1296-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moral Claims — Authorize Payments (O 1213-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Police Pension Pick — Up (R 1295-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tax Levies, 2012 — Accepting And Certifying — Budget Commission Of Cuyahoga County
(R 1222-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1548
. . . . . . . . . . . 1547
. . . . . . . . . . . 1566
. . . . . . . . . . . 1567
. . . . . . . . . . . 1530
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1551
1547
1551
1547

. . . . . . . . . . . 1552

FIRE DIVISION
Finance Department — Pension Pick-Up (R 1296-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547

GRANTS
Economic Development — Apply & Accept Jobs Ready Site Grant — Clean Up & Redevelopment
Of Bldg. 42 At 3615 Superior Ave. (Ward 08) (O 1294-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529
The Greater Cleveland Sports Commission — agreement — Gay Games 2014 (O 1202-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567

HOUSE BILL
Supporting HB 2795, Fit For Life Act Of 2011 (R 1229-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1560

1575

The City Record

52

September 21, 2011

HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT
City And County Waste Paper Drivers Teamsters Local 244 — Approve Fact — Finder’s Report —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1203-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567

LAND REUTILIZATION PROGRAM
Central Ave., 8011 — PPN 119-27-070 — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corp. (Ward
06) (O 1230-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567

LIQUOR PERMITS
Broadway Ave., 6815 — objection to issuance (Ward 12) (R 1236-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark Ave., 5110 (Drive Up Window) — objection to issuance (Ward 15) (R 1318-11) . . . . . . .
East 123rd St., 3881 — new application (Ward 02) (F 1319-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd St., 3881 — objection to issuance (Ward 02) (R 1317-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 17th St., 1740 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03)
(R 1237-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 2121(Room 136 And Patio) — transfer of ownership and location application
(Ward 08) (F 1321-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 3200 (Suite 103 & Patio) — transfer of ownership and location application
(Ward 8) (F 1322-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 10945 — new application (Ward 17) (F 1324-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 16700 (Units A & B) — objection to renewal (Ward 19) (R 1243-11). . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 7310 — objection to renewal (Ward 15) (R 1248-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Madison Ave., 10225 — objection to issuance (Ward 16) (R 1247-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repeal Res. No. 1133-11 , Adopted Aug. 17, 2011 — Scranton Rd., 3101 (Ward 14) (O 1242-11). .
Repeal Res. No. 1149-11, Adopted Aug. 17, 2011 — W.130th St., 4606 (Ward 18) (O 1246-11) . . . .
Repeal Res. No. 1167-11, Adopted Aug. 17, 2011 — Lorain Ave., 16700 (Ward 19) (O 1244-11) . .
Repeal Res. No. 1169-11, Adopted Aug. 17, 2011 — Lorain Ave., 7310 — Liquor Permit
(O 1249-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scranton Rd., 3101 — objection to renewal (Ward 14) (R 1241-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 12307 — objection to issuance (Ward 11) (R 1316-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 3980 — transfer of ownership and location application (Ward 08) (F 1323-11) .
West 130th St., 4606 — objection to renewal (Ward 18) (R 1245-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 14th St. — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 1239-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th St., 1265 (Patio) — transfer of ownership application (Ward 03) (F 1320-11) . . . . . .
Woodland Ave., 5616 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 05) (R 1238-11) . . . . . . .
Woodland Ave., 6002 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 05) (R 1240-11) . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1561
1551
1527
1550

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1561
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1527
1527
1563
1564
1563
1569
1569
1569

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1569
1562
1550
1527
1563
1562
1527
1561
1562

MORAL CLAIMS
Moral Claims — Authorize Payments (O 1213-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551

OHIO REVISED CODE
Finance Department — Fire Division Pension Pick-Up (R 1296-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547
Finance Department — Police Pension Pick — Up (R 1295-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547

PERMITS
Walk for Hope, 34th Annual — Permit — Oct. 8 — Catholic Charities Disability Services And
Ministries (Ward 03) (O 1235-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568

POLICE DIVISION
Finance Department — Police Pension Pick — Up (R 1295-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
Economic Development — Apply & Accept Jobs Ready Site Grant — Clean Up & Redevelopment
Of Bldg. 42 At 3615 Superior Ave. (Ward 08) (O 1294-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529
Exercise option to renew Contract No. Ct 1511 PS2010-124 with Oracle America, Inc.
(O 1214-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551
Mc Intyre, Erin — City Council — Extend Contract No. 0101-PS-2011-034 (O 1227-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567

PUBLIC HEARING NOTICES
Euclid Ave. (Between Burgess Rd. & Cliffview Rd.) — Change Use, Area And Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 10) (O 961-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
Fenwick Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 930-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
North Side Aetna Rd. (E. 71st St. & E. 72nd St.) — Change Use, Area And Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 838-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558

PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
Adoption Of The Complete And Green Street Policies And Guidelines (O 798-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551

1576

September 21, 2011

The City Record

53

PUBLIC WORKS
Amend Sect(S) 551.111 & 551.991 — Relating To Civil Infractions For Waste Collection
(O 1291-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 110th Harvard Park” (Between E. 108th & E. 110th St. / Harvard Ave.) — change name —
“Oleatha Wilson Park “ — City Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1300-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tacoma Ave. (E. 105th St. East To Parkwood Dr.) — Add Secondary and Honorary Designation
Of “Rev. Dr. E. Theophilus Caviness Way” — City Planning Commission (Ward(S) 8,
2) (O 1303-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warner Road And Tioga Ave. (Corner Lot) — change name — “ Mill Creek Falls Family Park” —
City Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1301-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1528
. . . . . . . . . . . 1549

. . . . . . . . . . . 1549
. . . . . . . . . . . 1549

RECOGNITION
All Faiths Pantry (R 1333-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bivins, Jimmy (R 1336-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Caviness, Rev. Dr. Emmitt Theophilus (R 1335-11)
Omega Psi Phi Fraternity (R 1334-11) . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1527
1527
1527
1527

...........
...........
(R 1226-11).
...........

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1550
1560
1559
1560

...........
...........
(R 1226-11).
...........

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1550
1560
1559
1560

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

RESOLUTION OF SUPPORT
Health Literacy (R 1299-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting HB 2795, Fit for Life Act Of 2011 (R 1229-11) . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting Renewal And Reauthorization Of The Clean Ohio Fund
Supporting Vote By Mail Program — with Motion (R 1228-11) . . . . .

RESOLUTIONS — MISCELLANEOUS
Health Literacy (R 1299-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting HB 2795, Fit for Life Act Of 2011 (R 1229-11) . . . . . . . . . .
Supporting Renewal And Reauthorization Of The Clean Ohio Fund
Supporting Vote By Mail Program — with Motion (R 1228-11) . . . . .

RESTRICTED INCOME TAX FUND
2011 Second Transfer Ordinance for Restricted Income Tax (R.I.T.) (O 1290-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1548

SALARIES
City And County Waste Paper Drivers Teamsters Local 244 — Approve Fact — Finder’s Report —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1203-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567

SAFETY DEPARTMENT
Finance Department — Fire Division Pension Pick-Up (R 1296-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547
Finance Department — Police Pension Pick — Up (R 1295-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1547

SEWERS
Utilities Department — Agreement With Rock Oho Caesars, LLC & USA Parking Systems —
Accept Gift Of High Ave. Sewer Relining (O 1292-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529

SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS
2011 Second Transfer Ordinance for Restricted Income Tax (R.I.T.) (O 1290-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1548

STREET VACATION
East 1st St. And High Ave., S.E. — Vacate A Portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(O 1304-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530
High Ave., S.E. — Intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 10)
(R 1099-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1559

STREETS — NAME
East 110th Harvard Park” (Between E. 108th & E. 110th St. / Harvard Ave.) — change name —
“Oleatha Wilson Park “ — City Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1300-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1549
Tacoma Ave. (E. 105th St. East To Parkwood Dr.) — Add Secondary and Honorary Designation
Of “Rev. Dr. E. Theophilus Caviness Way” — City Planning Commission (Ward(s)08,
02) (O 1303-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1549
Warner Road And Tioga Ave. (Corner Lot) — change name — “ Mill Creek Falls Family Park” —
City Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1301-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1549

1577

The City Record

54

September 21, 2011

TAX LEVIES
Tax Levies, 2012 — Accepting And Certifying — Budget Commission Of Cuyahoga County
(R 1222-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552

TAXES
Tax Levies, 2012 — Accepting And Certifying — Budget Commission Of Cuyahoga County
(R 1222-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1552

UNIONS
City And County Waste Paper Drivers Teamsters Local 244 — Approve Fact — Finder’s Report —
Finance Department — Human Resources Department (O 1203-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567

UTILITIES DEPARTMENT
Agreement With Rock Oho Caesars, LLC & USA Parking Systems — Accept Gift Of High Ave.
Sewer Relining (O 1292-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529
Contracts — various types of valves, actuators, and appurtenances — Water Division
(O 1293-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529

WALK-A-THONS
Walk for Hope, 34th Annual — Permit — Oct. 8 — Catholic Charities Disability Services And
Ministries (Ward 03) (O 1235-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568

WARD 01
Bowman, James L. — Condolence (R 1325-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
Mt. Pleasant Community Zone — agreement — Community Empowerment Mobilization
Program (Ward 01 NCF) (O 1297-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1548

WARD 02
Caviness, Rev. Dr. Emmitt Theophilus — Recognition (R 1335-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 116th St. (Martin Luther King Jr. Dr.) (Between Corlett Ave. & Dove Ave.) — Change Use
District — City Planning Commission (O 1308-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 131 St. (East Side From Melzer Ave. To Svec Ave.) — Change Use , Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (O 1311-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 99th St. At Miles Ave., (North & South Sides) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (O 1312-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 110th Harvard Park” (Between E. 108th & E. 110th St. / Harvard Ave.) — change name —
“Oleatha Wilson Park “ — City Planning Commission (O 1300-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd St., 3881 — new application — Liquor Permit (F 1319-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 123rd St., 3881 — objection to issuance — Liquor Permit (R 1317-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Ave. (North & South Sides Between E. 136th St. & E. 141st St.) — Change Use , Area
District — City Planning Commission (O 1315-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
John P. Green Place At Harvard Ave (East & West Sides) — Change Use, Area And Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1313-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meech Ave., Cassius Ave., Erie Rail Rd. & Harvard Ave., — Change The Use District — City
Planning Commission (O 1307-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., (North & South Sides Between E. 114th St. & E. 138th St.) — Change Use, Area
And Height Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1306-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., (South Side Between E. 116th St. & E. 128th St.) — Change Use, Area And Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1309-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., (South Side Between E. 93rd St & Broadway Ave.) — Change Use District — City
Planning Commission (O 1305-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., Broadway Ave., & E. 93rd St. — Change Use, Area, And Height District — City
Planning Commission (O 1314-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Park Ave., Harvard Ave., E. 93rd St. & E. 91st St. — Change Use, Area And Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (O 1310-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tacoma Ave. (E. 105th St. East To Parkwood Dr.) — Add Secondary and Honorary Designation
Of “Rev. Dr. E. Theophilus Caviness Way” — City Planning Commission (Ward 08)
(O 1303-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tufts, Lelia B. — Congratulations (R 1332-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Warner Road And Tioga Ave. (Corner Lot) — Change Name — “ Mill Creek Falls Family Park” —
City Planning Commission (O 1301-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . 1536
. . . . . . . . . . . 1540
. . . . . . . . . . . 1541
. . . . . . . . . . . 1549
. . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . 1550
. . . . . . . . . . . 1545
. . . . . . . . . . . 1542
. . . . . . . . . . . 1534
. . . . . . . . . . . 1531
. . . . . . . . . . . 1537
. . . . . . . . . . . 1530
. . . . . . . . . . . 1543
. . . . . . . . . . . 1538

. . . . . . . . . . . 1549
. . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . 1549

WARD 03
Amend Sect. 2 Of Ord. No. 605-09 — Schofield Properites LLC — Extend
To April 30, 2012 (Ward 03) (O 1111-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bivins, Jimmy — Recognition (R 1336-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clark, Richard F. — Congratulations (R 1331-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1578

Performance Deadline
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1566
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527

September 21, 2011

The City Record

55

East 17th St., 1740 (1st Fl. & Bsmt.) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03)
(R 1237-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 1st St. And High Ave., S.E. — vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (O 1304-11) .
Economic Development — Assign Contract No. 54918 With Rialto Corporation To P & M Ohio
City LLC — Contract Amendment (O 1298-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., And East 2nd Street And Ontario St., — Encroach Into Right — Of — Way —
Maintaining Foundations, Street Shoring Building Overhang, Canopy And Light — USA
Parking Systems Prospect LLC. (O 1094-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Retired/Retirable Irish Police Society — Congratulations (R 1330-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont West Development Corp. — West 14 St. (North Of Starkweather & South Of Fairfield
Ave.) — Oct. 13 To Oct. 21 — Tremont Farmers’ Market (Ward 03) (O 1232-11). . . . . . . . . . .
Walk for Hope, 34th Annual — Permit — Oct. 8 — Catholic Charities Disability Services And
Ministries (Ward 03) (O 1235-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 14th St. — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 03) (R 1239-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 9th St., 1265 (Patio) — transfer of ownership application — Liquor Permit (F 1320-11) . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1561
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1530
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1548

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1564
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1562
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527

WARD 05
Health Literacy (R 1299-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1550
Woodland Ave., 5616 — objection to transfer of liquor license (Ward 05) (R 1238-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1561
Woodland Ave., 6002 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 05) (R 1240-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1562

WARD 06
Central Ave., 8011 — PPN 119-27-070 — Land Reutilization Program — Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corp. (O 1230-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1567
Cromwell Avenue Block Club — Cromwell Ave., (Between E. 116th St. & E. 120th St.) — Sept.
13 To Oct. 12 — Community Pride (O 1233-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568

WARD 08
Caviness, Rev. Dr. Emmitt Theophilus — Recognition (R 1335-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development — Apply & Accept Jobs Ready Site Grant — Clean Up & Redevelopment
of Bldg. 42 At 3615 Superior Ave. (O 1294-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 2121(Room 136 And Patio) — transfer of ownership and location application
(F 1321-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., 3200 (Suite 103 & Patio) — transfer of ownership and location application —
liquor permit (F 1322-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 3980 — transfer of ownership and location application — liquor
permit (F 1323-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tacoma Ave. (E. 105th St. East To Parkwood Dr.) — Add Secondary and Honorary Designation
of “Rev. Dr. E. Theophilus Caviness Way” — City Planning Commission (Ward 02)
(O 1303-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1549

WARD 09
Famicos Foundation — Ashbury Ave. (Between E. 105th & E. 118th) — Sept. 25 To Oct. 24 —
Ashbury Avenue Neighborhood History And Pride (O 1234-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568

WARD 10
Euclid Ave. (Between Burgess Rd. & Cliffview Rd.) — Change Use, Area And Height District —
City Planning Commission (O 961-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
High Ave., S.E. — Intention to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 10)
(R 1099-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1559

WARD 11
Omega Psi Phi Fraternity — Recognition (R 1334-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
St. Clair Ave., 12307 — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1316-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1550

WARD 12
Broadway Ave., 6815 — objection to issuance (Ward 12) (R 1236-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Calamante, Joseph & Patricia — Congratulations (R 1329-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Side Aetna Rd. (E. 71st St. & E. 72nd St.) — Change Use, Area And Height District —
City Planning Commission (O 838-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Slavic Village Development — various locations — Sept. 23 To Oct. 22 — Broadway Farmer’s
Market (Ward 12)(O 1231-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1561
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1568

WARD 13
All Faiths Pantry — Recognition (R 1333-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527

1579

The City Record

56

September 21, 2011

WARD 14
Repeal Res. No. 1133-11 , Adopted Aug. 17, 2011 — Scranton Rd., 3101 (Ward 14) (O 1242-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1569
Scranton Rd., 3101 — objection to renewal (Ward 14) (R 1241-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1562

WARD 15
Clark Ave., 5110 (Drive Up Window) — objection to issuance — liquor permit (R 1318-11)
Fenwick Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (O 930-11) . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 7310 — objection to renewal (Ward 15) (R 1248-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repeal Res. No. 1169-11, Adopted Aug. 17, 2011 — Lorain Ave., 7310 — liquor permit
(O 1249-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1551
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1564
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1569

WARD 16
Madison Ave., 10225 — objection to issuance (Ward 16) (R 1247-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1563

WARD 17
Lorain Ave., 10945 — new application — liquor permit (F 1324-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527

WARD 18
West 130th St., 4606 — objection to renewal (Ward 18) (R 1245-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1563
Gardner, Jay Douglas — Condolence (R 1326-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1527
Repeal Res. No. 1149-11, Adopted Aug. 17, 2011 — W.130th St., 4606 (Ward 18) (O 1246-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1569

WARD 19
Lorain Ave., 16700 (Units A & B) — objection to renewal (Ward 19) (R 1243-11). . . . . . . . . .
Mc Cafferty, Kathryn — Condolence (R 1328-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Repeal Res. No. 1167-11, Adopted Aug. 17, 2011 — Lorain Ave., 16700 (Ward 19) (O 1244-11)
Stanton, Thomas F. — Condolence (R 1327-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1563
1527
1569
1527

WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL DIVISION
Amend Sect(S) 551.111 & 551.991 — Relating To Civil Infractions For Waste Collection
(O 1291-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1528

WATER DIVISION
Utilities Department — contracts — various Types of valves, actuators, and appurtenances
(O 1293-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1529

ZONING
E. 116th St. (Martin Luther King Jr. Dr.) (Between Corlett Ave. & Dove Ave.) — Change Use
District — City Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1308-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 131 St. (East Side From Melzer Ave. To Svec Ave.) — Change Use, Area Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1311-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 99th St. At Miles Ave., (North & South Sides) — Change Use District — City Planning
Commission (Ward 02) (O 1312-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. (Between Burgess Rd. & Cliffview Rd.) — Change Use, Area And Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 10) (O 961-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fenwick Ave. — Change Use District — City Planning Commission (Ward 15) (O 930-11) . . . . . . . .
Harvard Ave. (North & South Sides Between E. 136th St. & E. 141st St.) — Change Use , Area
Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1315-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
John P. Green Place At Harvard Ave (East & West Sides) — Change Use, Area And Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1313-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meech Ave., Cassius Ave., Erie Rail Rd. & Harvard Ave., — Change The Use District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1307-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., (North & South Sides Between E. 114th St. & E. 138th St.) — Change Use, Area
And Height Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1306-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., (South Side Between E. 116th St. & E. 128th St.) — Change Use, Area And Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1309-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., (South Side Between E. 93rd St & Broadway Ave.) — Change Use District — City
Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1305-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave., Broadway Ave., & E. 93rd St. — Change Use, Area, And Height Districts — City
Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1314-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Park Ave., Harvard Ave., E. 93rd St. & E. 91st St. — Change Use, Area And Height
Districts — City Planning Commission (Ward 02) (O 1310-11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
North Side Aetna Rd. (E. 71st St. & E. 72nd St.) — Change Use, Area And Height Districts —
City Planning Commission (Ward 12) (O 838-11). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1580

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1536
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1540
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1541
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1558
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1545
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1542
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1534
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1531
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1537
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1530
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1543
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1538
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1558

