The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

July the Ninth, Two Thousand and Eight

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Containing

PAGE

City Council
3
The Calendar
55
Board of Control
55
Civil Service
63
Board of Zoning Appeals
63
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
64
Public Notice
64
Public Hearings
64
City of Cleveland Bids
64
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
65
Committee Meetings
115
Index
116

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Nina Turner..................................................16204 Sunny Glen Avenue
44128
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Angel Guzman, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley; Councilman Nina Turner.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue

POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

AUDIT COMMITTEE – Robert Rawson, Chairman; Yvette Ittu, Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis,
Don Neebes, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.

CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Laura M. Bala, Chair; Jennifer
Coleman, Vice Chair; Robert N. Brown, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Thomas
Coffey, Robert Jackimowicz; Ari Maron, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John
Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert Keiser, Secretary.

CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
14B
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12A
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles Patton, Jr.
12B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Michael John Ryan
12C
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak –
Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JULY 9, 2008

Vol. 95

No. 4935

CITY COUNCIL
WEDNESDAY, JULY 2, 2008
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at

Cleveland, Mitchell, Turner, Westbrook.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Coats,
Cummins,
Kelley,
Mitchell, Polensek, Santiago, Turner.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating

www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Turner.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Brancatelli, Chair;
Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley, Mitchell, Reed, Santiago.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek,
Reed,
Santiago,
White.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Keane, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Lewis, Pierce
Scott, Reed, White.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Coats,
Conwell, Pierce Scott, Turner, Westbrook, White, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cimperman, Cummins, Coats,
Lewis, Westbrook. Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson,
Mitchell.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Keane,
Vice
Chair;
Brancatelli,

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Pierce Scott, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting was dispensed with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member
Kelley.
COMMUNICATIONS

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Cummins, Keane, Kelley,
Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Keane,
Lewis, Reed, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee:
Westbrook,
Chair;
Kelley,
Mitchell,
Pierce
Scott,
Santiago,
Sweeney, White.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Wednesday, July 2, 2008
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson,
Keane, Kelley, Mitchell, Polensek,
Reed, Santiago, Pierce Scott, Sweeney, Turner, White and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson; Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff; Valerie J. McCall, Chief of
Government
Affairs;
Monyka
S.
Price, Chief of Education; Maureen
Harper, Chief of Communications;
Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary;
Debra Linn Talley; Director of
Office of Equal Opportunity; and
Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Interim
Director Withers, Directors Smith,
Wasik, Carroll, Cox, Rush, Rybka,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Griffen and Brown.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
a prayer was offered by Rev.
Ronald Lee, Pastor of Calvary Congregational Church, located at 4424
Lee Road in Ward 1. Pledge of Allegiance.

1379

File No. 1074-08.
From Central Collection Agency.
Report on Audits of Financial
Statements for the years ended
December 31, 2007 and 2006. Received.
File No. 1075-08.
From Department of Public Utilities, Division of Water Pollution
Control. Report on Audits of Financial Statements for the years ended
December 31, 2007 and 2006. Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1076-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 6424592 —
93 Aetna, Inc., 3661 East 93rd Street.
(Ward 2). Received.
File No. 1077-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 6548707 —
13101 Shaker LLC, d.b.a. Grotto
Wine Bar, 13101 Shaker Square.
(Ward 4). Received.
File No. 1078-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 2830808 — 4424 LLC, d.b.a.
Buccos, 770 East 185th Street. (Ward
11). Received.
File No. 1079-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 1552045 — Cleveland Hill,
LLC, d.b.a. Flat Iron Café, 1114
Center
Street.
(Ward
13)
Received.
File No. 1080-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 722200949 — Ransaw, LLC,
d.b.a. Whiskey River Too, 3578 Independence Road. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1081-08.
Re: Economic Development Transfer to Another Taxing District. Application — 5202368005 — Lilly
Handmade Chocolates, Inc., d.b.a.
Lilly
Handmade
Chocolates,
761
Starkweather Avenue. (Ward 13).
Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 1082-08.
Re: Transfer of Location Application — 65491600001 — 1624 Superior
Avenue, Inc., 727 Bolivar Road and
Patio. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1083-08.
Re: Transfer of Location Application — 5237927002 — Little Kings
Lunge, Inc., d.b.a. Little Kings
Lounge, 3009 Payne Avenue. (Ward
13). Received.
File No. 1084-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 1905468 — Dalyah Inc.,
d.b.a. Storer Deli, 3353 West 44th
Street. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1085-08.
Re: Liquor Agency Contract —
73935330301 — Riser Foods Co., d.b.a.
Giant Eagle, #230, 3050 West 117th
Street. (Ward 19). Received.
File No. 1086-08.
Re: New Application — 88771400 —
3519 West 117th, Inc., d.b.a. Grab N
Go Deli and Beverage, 3519 West
117th Street. (Ward 19). Received.
PLATS
File No. 1011-08.
Council
Member
Cimperman
(Ward 13). Valleyview Homes Hope
VI Phase Two Subdivision — West
7th Street, West 6th Street and
Starkweather Avenue.
Approved by Planning Director
and Service Director; Approved by
Committees on Public Service and
City Planning. Received.
Without objection plat approved.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No.
Res. No.
Jones.
Res. No.
Carr.
Res. No.
gan.
Res. No.
rence.
Res. No.
Res. No.
Res. No.
Hicks.
Res. No.
Res. No.
Williams.
Res. No.
Talley.
Res. No.

1087-08—Tim Russert.
1088-08 — Helen Kroeger
1089-08 — Gladys Wood1090-08—Otha Lee Dunni1091-08 — Edward Law1092-08—Carol L. Russ.
1093-08—Fred Embrescia.
1094-08 — Myrtle Hamm
1095-08—David Fisher.
1096-08 — Sandra Denise
1097-08 — Alvin Phillip
1098-08—Daniel

Lewis.

CONGRATULATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1099-08 — Anand “Bill”
Julka.
Res. No. 1100-08—Ellis Z. Yan.
Res. No. 1101-08 — Dr. Christine S.
Moravec.
Res. No. 1102-08—Dr. Robert A.
Cutietta.
Res. No. 1103-08 — Dr. Roshanak
Hakimzadeh.
Res. No. 1104-08 — Gregory L.
Brown.
Res. No. 1105-08—Georgia A. Froelich.

July 9, 2008

Res. No. 1106-08—James A. Harmon.
Res. No. 1107-08 — Western Reserve Fire Museum.
Res. No. 1108-08—Dan Visconti.
Res. No. 1109-08 — Hildur Asgeirsdóttir Jónsson.
Res. No. 1110-08—Angela Johnson.
Res. No. 1111-08—Melvin Rose.
Res. No. 1112-08—Craig Lucas.
Res. No. 1113-08—Mitchell Kahan.
Res. No. 1114-08 — Michael Ruhlman.
Res. No. 1115-08—Michael Symon.
Res. No. 1116-08—Richard Gildenmeister.
Res. No. 1117-08—Graham Grund.
Res. No. 1118-08 — Don Vanderbrook.
Res. No. 1119-08—Allan B. Dreyer.
Res. No. 1120-08—WIRE-Net.
Res. No. 1121-08—Dorothy Tucker.
Res. No. 1122-08—Mark Alan Mangus.
Res. No. 1123-08—Reverend George
O. Stewart.
Res. No. 1124-08—Apostolic Church
of God in Christ.
Res. No. 1125-08 — Sister Marie
Veres, HM.
Res. No. 1126-08—Rose Zaremba.
Res. No. 1127-08 — Nadine SparksDavis.
Res. No. 1128-08 — Dr. Eddie L.
Hawkins.
Res. No. 1129-08 — Patrick & Ann
Kilbane.
Res. No. 1130-08—Kenneth “Kenny”
Ovark.
Res. No. 1131-08 — John M. Hairston, Jr.
Res. No. 1132-08 — Randall E.
DeVaul.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1133-08—Lutheran Hospital Medical Offices.
Res. No. 1134-08—Mike McCartney.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1135-08 — John A. Jurcsisn.
Res. No. 1136-08—Reverend Debbie
Gibbons.
COMMENDATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No.
Timko, Sr.

1137-08

—

Anthony

S.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 984-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of Bonds
in the maximum principal amount of
$10,400,000 for the purpose of providing funds to pay final judgments,
including court-approved settlements,
and authorizing related matters.
Whereas, this Council desires to
issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Ten Million Four Hundred Thousand Dollars ($10,400,000) (the “Bonds”) to

1380

provide funds to pay final judgments, including court-approved settlements of claims; and
Whereas, the Director of Finance,
as fiscal officer of the City, has certified to this Council in the Fiscal
Officer’s Certificate contained in
File No. 984-08-A that the City is
unable, within the limits of its other
funds that have been appropriated
and are available for the purpose, to
pay the final judgments for which
the Bonds are to be issued, and that
the maximum maturity of the Bonds
is December 31st of the twenty-fifth
(25th) year following the year in
which securities for the purpose are
first issued; and
Whereas, this Council passed Ordinance No. 1749-80 on October 8, 1980,
and thereafter amended that ordinance by Ordinance No. 1112-83,
passed on May 6, 1983, and Ordinance No. 944-96, passed on June 10,
1996 (Ordinance No. 1749-80, as so
amended and as the same may further be amended from time to time
in accordance with its provisions, is
referred to as the “General Bond
Ordinance”), providing the general
terms
and
provisions
for
the
issuance of unvoted general obligations of the City, with the specific
terms of each series of Bonds to be
contained in ordinances authorizing
the issuance of Bonds in accordance
with the provisions thereof (the
“Series Bond Ordinances”); and
Whereas, the authorization for
issuance of the Bonds is necessary
to provide funds to pay the costs of
certain final judgments, including
court-approved settlements, that are
urgently needed for the benefit of
the City, and as a result, this Ordinance
constitutes
an
emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety, and for
the usual daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Purpose. It is deemed
necessary to issue the Bonds in an
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed Ten Million Four Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($10,400,000) for
the purpose of providing funds to
pay final judgments, including settlements of claims approved by a
court, and to pay such other costs,
expenses and interest that may be
financed with the proceeds of securities
as
permitted
by
Section
133.14(A) of the Revised Code.
Section 2.
Authority and Terms.
The Bonds shall be issued pursuant
to the provisions of Article XVIII of
the Constitution of Ohio, Sections
133.01 to 133.70, inclusive, and other
applicable provisions of the Revised
Code, the Charter of the City, the
General Bond Ordinance and this
Ordinance for the purpose stated in
Section 1. The Bonds shall be designated “Final Judgment Bonds”
and may contain such further designation as provided in the Certificate of Award identified below. The
Bonds shall be issued in one lot as
fully registered Bonds in denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Bonds shall be
numbered as determined by the
Director of Finance.
The Bonds shall be dated as of
September 1, 2008, or such other
date, but in no event later than
December 31, 2009, specified in the
certificate of award providing for
the final terms of the Bonds and the
sale of the Bonds signed by the

July 9, 2008
Director of Finance in accordance
with this Ordinance (the “Certificate
of Award”). The Bonds shall be
issued in the principal amount specified in the Certificate of Award,
which shall not exceed the amount
stated in Section 1. The Bonds shall
bear interest from their date until
the principal amount is paid at the
rate or rates per year specified in
the Certificate of Award, provided
that the weighted average of such
rates (taking into account the principal amount and maturity of each
Bond to which a rate applies) shall
not exceed eight percent (8%) per
year. Interest on the Bonds shall be
payable semi-annually on June 1
and December 1 of each year, beginning December 1, 2008, or on such
other dates specified in the Certificate of Award as the dates on which
interest on the Bonds shall be
payable
(the
“Interest
Payment
Dates”).
The Bonds shall mature on December 1 in twenty-five (25) substantially equal annual installments,
beginning December 1, 2009, or
according to the schedule set forth
in the Certificate of Award, provided that (i) each principal payment
shall occur on an Interest Payment
Date, (ii) the first principal payment on the Bonds shall be no earlier than December 1, 2008 and no
later than December 31, 2010, (iii)
the final maturity date of the Bonds
shall be no later than December 31st
of the twenty-fifth (25th) year following the year in which the Bonds
are issued, or if any Notes are
issued in anticipation of the Bonds,
no later than December 31st of the
twenty-fifth (25th) year following
the year in which the Notes were
issued,
and
(iv)
the
principal
amount thereof shall be payable in
annual installments such that the
total principal and interest payments on the Bonds in any fiscal
year in which principal is payable
is not more than three times the
amount of those payments in any
other fiscal year.
The Bonds stated to mature in
any year may be issued as term
bonds (the “Term Bonds”), payable
pursuant
to
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements as
defined and further described below.
The Director of Finance shall determine in the Certificate of Award
whether any of the Bonds shall be
issued as Term Bonds, any dates
(the
“Mandatory
Redemption
Dates”) on which the principal
amount of the Term Bonds shall be
payable
pursuant
to
mandatory
sinking fund installments rather
than at stated maturity and the
amount of principal to be paid on
each Mandatory Redemption Date
(the “Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements”).
The Bonds shall be subject to
redemption or purchase prior to stated maturity as follows:
(a)
Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption.
If any of the Bonds
are issued as Term Bonds, the Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption and be
redeemed pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements, at a redemption price of 100
percent of the principal amount
redeemed, plus interest accrued to
the redemption date, on the Mandatory Redemption Dates.
The aggregate of the moneys to
be deposited with the Escrow Agent,
currently The Huntington National
Bank, for payment of principal of
and interest on any Term Bonds

The City Record
shall include amounts sufficient to
redeem on the Mandatory Redemption Dates the principal amount of
Term Bonds payable on those dates
pursuant to the Mandatory Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements
(less the amount of any credit as
provided below).
The City shall have the option to
deliver to the Registrar (as defined
in Section 3) for cancellation Term
Bonds in any aggregate principal
amount and to receive a credit
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation) of the City
for any Term Bonds. That option
shall be exercised by the City on or
before the forty-fifth (45th) day preceding the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Date, by furnishing the
Escrow Agent a certificate, signed
by the Registrar, setting forth the
extent of the credit to be applied
with respect to the then current
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement. If the certificate
is not timely furnished to the
Escrow Agent, the Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement
(and
corresponding
mandatory
redemption obligation) shall not be
reduced. A credit against the then
current Mandatory Sinking Fund
Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory redemption
obligation) also shall be received by
the City for any Term Bonds which
prior thereto have been redeemed
(other than through the operation of
the
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirements) or purchased for cancellation and canceled
by the Registrar, to the extent not
applied
theretofore
as
a
credit
against any mandatory redemption
obligation.
Each Term Bond so delivered, or
previously redeemed, or purchased
and canceled, shall be credited by
the Escrow Agent at 100 percent
of the principal amount thereof
against the then current Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirement (and corresponding mandatory
redemption obligation). Any excess
of that amount over the then current
Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption Requirement shall be credited against subsequent Mandatory
Sinking
Fund
Redemption
Requirements (and corresponding mandatory redemption obligations) in
the order directed by the Director of
Finance.
(b)
Optional Redemption.
The
Bonds may be subject to redemption
prior to maturity by and at the
option of the City, in whole or in
part on any date, in integral multiples of $5,000, on the optional redemption dates and at the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount redeemed) specified in the Certificate
of Award, plus, in each case, accrued interest to the redemption
date. The first optional redemption
date shall not be later than ten
years from the first Interest Payment Date, and the highest redemption price shall not be greater than
102% of the principal amount redeemed plus accrued interest to the
redemption date. Based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may determine
in the Certificate of Award that it
is in the best interests of the City
for some or all of the Bonds not to
be callable prior to their stated
maturity.
If optional redemption at a price
exceeding 100% of the principal

1381

5
amount to be redeemed is to take
place as of any applicable Mandatory Redemption Date, the Bonds, or
portions thereof, to be redeemed
optionally shall be selected by lot
prior to the selection by lot of the
Bonds to be redeemed on the same
date by operation of the Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements of paragraph (a). The Bonds
shall be redeemed pursuant to this
paragraph only upon written notice
from the Director of Finance to the
Registrar. That notice shall specify
the redemption date and the principal amount of each maturity of
Bonds to be redeemed, and shall be
given at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the redemption date or such
shorter period as shall be acceptable
to the Registrar.
There shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date funds
sufficient to redeem at the redemption price all of the redeemable
Bonds for which notice of redemption has been given.
(c) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. If and to the extent provided
in the Certificate of Award, the City
may elect to purchase Bonds called
for optional redemption in lieu of
redeeming those Bonds. That election shall be exercised by written
direction
from
the
Director
of
Finance to the Registrar and the
Escrow Agent. That written direction shall state whether all or less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased by the City in lieu of
redemption, shall identify the Bonds
to be purchased by their maturity
date and shall specify the principal
amount of each maturity to be purchased in lieu of redemption. If less
than all of the Bonds called for
optional redemption are to be purchased in lieu of redemption, the
amount of each maturity to be purchased shall be in amounts of $5,000
or integral multiples of $5,000. Any
Bonds called for optional redemption that are not to be purchased
shall be redeemed in accordance
with their redemption provisions.
The purchase price of the Bonds to
be purchased in lieu of redemption
shall be equal to the principal of,
any accrued but unpaid interest on,
and any premium that would have
been payable on the Bonds on the
redemption date if the Bonds had
been optionally redeemed instead of
being purchased. No notice of the
purchase in lieu of redemption is
required to be given to the owners
of the Bonds in addition to the
notice of redemption required by
this Ordinance. The Escrow Agent
or Registrar, as paying agent shall
not purchase Bonds if sufficient
moneys have not been deposited
with the Escrow Agent or Registrar,
as paying agent, by the City for the
purpose. On or prior to the scheduled date for optional redemption,
the City may rescind its direction to
purchase the Bonds in lieu of
redemption by written notice from
the Director of Finance to the Registrar and the Escrow Agent. In the
event that the direction to purchase
is rescinded, the Bonds shall be
redeemed on the redemption date set
forth in the notice of redemption
delivered to the owners of the Bonds
and in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
(d)
Partial Redemption or Purchase. If fewer than all of the outstanding Bonds are called for redemption at one time (whether for
redemption or purchase in lieu of
redemption), they shall be called in

6
the order of maturities directed by
the Director of Finance. If fewer
than all Bonds of a single maturity
are to be redeemed or purchase in
lieu of redemption, the selection of
Bonds to be redeemed or purchased,
or portions thereof in amounts of
$5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, shall be made by the Registrar
by lot in a manner determined by
the Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption
or
purchase
of
Bonds by lot when Bonds of denominations greater than $5,000 are then
outstanding, each $5,000 unit of principal thereof shall be treated as
though it were a separate Bond of
the denomination of $5,000. If it is
determined that one or more, but not
all of the $5,000 units of principal
amount represented by a Bond are
to be called for redemption, then
upon notice of redemption of a
$5,000 unit or units, the registered
owner of that Bond shall surrender
the Bond to the Registrar (i) for
payment of the redemption or purchase price of the $5,000 unit or
units called for redemption (including, without limitation, the interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption and any premium), and
(ii) for issuance, without charge to
the registered owner thereof, of a
new Bond or Bonds of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal
amount equal to the unmatured portion of the Bond not redeemed or
purchased and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date as the Bond surrendered.
(e)
Notice of Redemption.
The
notice of the call for redemption of
Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the Bonds or portions thereof to be redeemed, (ii)
the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and
(iv) the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice of redemption
may provide that the redemption of
the Bonds is contingent on the City’s
deposit of moneys with the Registrar on the redemption date in an
amount
sufficient
to
pay
the
redemption price of all Bonds to be
redeemed on that date. The notice
shall be given by the Registrar on
behalf of the City by mailing a copy
of the redemption notice by first
class mail, postage prepaid, at least
thirty (30) days prior to the date
fixed for redemption (or such period specified in the Certificate of
Award), to the registered owner of
each Bond subject to redemption in
whole or in part at the registered
owner’s address shown on the Bond
Register maintained by the Registrar at the close of business on the
fifteenth day preceding that mailing
and to any municipal bond insurance company that has issued a policy insuring some or all of the
Bonds. Failure to receive notice by
mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Bond.
(f) Payment of Redeemed Bonds.
Notice having been mailed in the
manner provided in the preceding
paragraph, the Bonds and portions
thereof called for redemption shall
become due and payable on the
redemption date, and, upon presentation and surrender at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid. If money for the redemption of all of the Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, including

The City Record
interest accrued to the redemption
date, is held by the Registrar on the
redemption date, and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail, then from and after the
redemption date those Bonds and
portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and
no longer shall be considered to be
outstanding. If that money shall not
be so available on the redemption
date, or that notice shall not have
been deposited in the mail, those
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All money
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Bonds shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners and shall be
paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those
Bonds.
The debt charges on the Bonds
shall be payable in lawful money of
the United States of America without deduction for the services of the
Registrar or Escrow Agent as paying agent. Principal shall be payable when due upon presentation
and surrender of the Bonds at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar. Interest on a Bond
shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check or draft mailed
to the person in whose name the
Bond was registered, and to that
person’s address appearing, on the
Bond Register (as defined in Section
3) at the close of business on the
date provided in the Agreement
authorized in Section 3 (the “Record
Date”). Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the General Bond
Ordinance, so long as the Bonds are
held by a Depository in a book entry
system (as described in Section 3),
debt charges on the Bonds will be
payable in lawful money of the United States by wire transfer to the
Depository made by the Escrow
Agent on or prior to each Interest
Payment Date.
This Series Bond Ordinance is
enacted pursuant to the General
Bond Ordinance. The General Bond
Ordinance, except for the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) (pertaining generally to an adjustment
of the interest rate in an event of
default) and the third paragraph of
Section 4 (pertaining generally to
the periods during which the City is
not required to make any transfers
or exchanges of bonds issued under
the General Bond Ordinance), will
apply to the Bonds.
Except for
those provisions, the General Bond
Ordinance is included as a part of
this Ordinance as fully as if restated in this Ordinance. Words and
terms not otherwise defined in this
Ordinance shall have the same
meaning as set forth in the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 3. Execution, Authentication, Approval and Recording of the
Bonds; Exchange and Transfer of
the Bonds; Paying Agents.
The
Bonds shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are
issued and that they are issued pursuant to this Ordinance. Pursuant to
Section 4 of the General Bond Ordinance, each Bond shall be authenticated by the manual signature of an
authorized officer of the Trustee (as
defined therein). The Bonds shall be
signed by the City’s Mayor and by
the City’s Director of Finance. In
accordance with Section 9.96 of the
Revised Code and the foregoing
requirement that each Bond bear the

1382

July 9, 2008
manual signature of an authorized
officer of the Trustee, either or both
of the signatures of the City’s Mayor
or of its Director of Finance may be
a facsimile. The Bonds shall bear
the seal of the City, which seal may
be a facsimile seal. Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s Charter, the
Director of Law shall prepare the
Bonds and shall endorse thereon his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the
Bonds (the “Registrar”). The Escrow Agent shall also act as paying
agent for the Bonds so long as the
Bonds are held in a book entry system. The Director of Finance shall
sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the City, an agreement
among the City, the Registrar and
the Escrow Agent (the “Agreement”), approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, providing for services relating to the
registration, transfer, exchange and
payment of the Bonds on terms that
are approved by the Director of
Finance on behalf of the City. That
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of the Agreement by the Director of Finance.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Agreement from the proceeds of the
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Bonds
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep at its principal corporate trust
office all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange
and transfer of Bonds as provided
in this Section (the “Bond Register”). The person in whose name a
Bond is registered on the Bond Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Bond for all
purposes of this Ordinance. Payment
of or on account of the debt charges
on any Bond shall be made only to
or upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Bond, including interest, to the
extent of the amount or amounts so
paid.
Any Bond may be exchanged for
Bonds of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar.
A Bond may be transferred only on
the Bond Register upon presentation
and surrender of the Bond at the
principal corporate trust office of
the Registrar together with an
assignment signed by the registered
owner
or
by
a
person
legally
empowered to do so in a form satisfactory to the Registrar. Upon
exchange or transfer the Registrar
shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Bond or Bonds of any
authorized denomination or denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unma-

July 9, 2008
tured principal amount of the Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Bonds only after the new
Bonds are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Bonds
in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance.
The exchange or
transfer shall be without charge to
the owner, except that the City and
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Bonds
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Bonds surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Ordinance, if it is determined by the Director of Finance to
be advantageous to the City, the
Bonds may be issued in book entry
form in accordance with the provisions of this Section. As used in this
Section and this Ordinance:
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
beneficial interests in Bonds and the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Bond certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Bonds
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
beneficial interests in those Bonds
and that principal and interest.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of beneficial interests in Bonds or the principal and
interest, and to effect transfers of
Bonds, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
The Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a book
entry system is utilized:
(i) the
Bonds may be issued in the form of
a single, fully registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository
or its nominee, as registered owner,
and immobilized in the custody of
the Depository; (ii) the beneficial
owners in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Bonds in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on the

The City Record
system maintained and operated by
the Depository and its Participants,
and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made
only by book entry by the Depository and its Participants; and (iv)
the Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Bonds for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Registrar, after making provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the then Depository
and any other arrangements deemed
necessary, shall permit withdrawal
of the Bonds from the Depository,
and the Trustee and Registrar shall
authenticate and deliver bond certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is also
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the
Bonds, after determining that the
signing thereof will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
and after the approval of the form
of any such agreement by the Director of Law.
Section 4.
Sale of Bonds.
The
Bonds shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Bonds and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”).
The Bonds shall be awarded to
the Original Purchaser in the Certificate of Award which shall specify the final terms of the Bonds in
accordance with law, the provisions
of this Ordinance, the written advice
of a financial advisor retained under
authority of Section 20 and the Original Purchaser’s offer to purchase
the Bonds, including: the principal
amount of the Bonds, final purchase
price (which shall be not less than
97% of the principal amount plus
accrued interest to their date of
delivery), interest rate or rates, the
amounts and years in which principal installments are payable (at
stated
maturity
or
pursuant
to
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements), the Interest
Payment Dates and the date of the
Bonds (if different from those set
forth in Section 2) and any other
matters required in this Ordinance
to be set forth in that Certificate. As
appropriate under the Charter, the
Mayor, Director of Finance, Director
of Law, Clerk of Council and other
appropriate officers of the City are,
and each of them is, authorized to
take such actions as are necessary,
appropriate and in the best interest
of the City to establish the terms

1383

7
and requirements for delivery of the
Bonds and to make such arrangements as are necessary with the
Original Purchaser in order to establish the date, location, procedures,
and conditions for the delivery of
the Bonds to the Original Purchaser, to give all appropriate notices
and certificates, to cause a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Bonds
to be delivered to the Original Purchaser, to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and
other documents and instruments
and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Ordinance and to take all
steps necessary to effect the due
execution, authentication and delivery of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver on behalf of the City a bond
purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchaser
(the “Bond Purchase Agreement”),
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, setting forth
the terms and conditions on which
the City agrees to sell the Bonds
and the Original Purchaser agrees
to buy the Bonds on terms consistent with this Ordinance and not
substantially adverse to the City
and that are approved by the Director of Finance on behalf of the City,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
or
amendments to the Bond Purchase
Agreement
by
the
Director
of
Finance. It is determined that the
terms of the Bonds, as provided in
this Ordinance and as may be provided in or pursuant to the Certificate of Award, are in the best interest of the City and in compliance
with all legal requirements.
Section 5. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax.
For the purpose of providing the necessary
funds to pay the interest on the
Bonds promptly when and as the
same falls due, and also to provide
for the discharge of the Bonds at
maturity, there shall be and is
levied on all the taxable property in
the City, in addition to all other
taxes, a direct tax annually during
the period the Bonds are outstanding, in an amount sufficient to provide for the payment of that interest, when and as the same shall fall
due, and also to discharge the principal of the Bonds at maturity,
which tax shall not be less than the
interest
and
sinking
fund
tax
required by Section 11 of Article XII
of the Constitution of Ohio.
The tax shall be and is ordered
computed, certified, levied and extended upon the tax duplicate and
collected by the same officers, in the
same manner and at the same time
that taxes for general purposes for
each of those years are certified,
extended and collected. The tax
shall be placed before and in preference to all other items and for the
full amount thereof. The funds
derived from those tax levies shall
be placed in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account of the
Sinking Fund as required by the
General Bond Ordinance, and those
funds, together with the interest collected on them shall be irrevocably
pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds
when and as the same fall due; provided, however, that, subject to the
provisions of Section 8 of the General Bond Ordinance, in each year to

8
the extent that revenues are available from other sources for the payment of the Bonds and are appropriated for such purpose, the amount
of such tax shall be reduced by the
amount of such revenues so available and appropriated.
This Council hereby covenants, on
behalf of the City and its officials,
pursuant to the authorization under
Sections 133.25(B)(1) and 5705.51 of
the Revised Code, and in accordance
with the provisions of and to the
extent required or permitted by the
General Bond Ordinance, that the
City will appropriate annually from
the proceeds of the City’s municipal
income taxes an amount as is necessary to meet the annual debt
charges for the Bonds.
Section 6.
Application of Proceeds. The proceeds from the sale
of the Bonds, except for accrued
interest thereon and any premium,
shall be expended and applied for
the objects and purposes for which
the Bonds are issued. Accrued interest and any premium received by
the City from the sale of the Bonds
shall be deposited in the Unvoted
Tax Supported Obligations Account
of the Sinking Fund to be applied
to the payment of the principal of
and interest on the Bonds.
Section 7.
General Obligation.
The Bonds are secured by a pledge
and lien on a parity with the
pledges and liens authorized by the
General Bond Ordinance and, in
addition to the taxes and revenues
specifically pledged pursuant to this
Ordinance and the General Bond
Ordinance and the other covenants,
terms
and
agreements
provided
hereunder and in the General Bond
Ordinance to secure payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds, the City hereby determines,
declares, warrants and covenants
that the Bonds are general obligations of the City and that the full
faith and credit of the City are hereby pledged for the payment of the
principal of and interest on the
Bonds in accordance with the laws
and Constitution of the State of
Ohio, this Ordinance and the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 8. Defeasance.
(a) Release of Ordinance. If the
City shall pay or cause to be paid
and discharged all the outstanding
Bonds, or there shall otherwise be
paid to the holders of the outstanding Bonds all debt charges due or
to become due thereon, and provision shall also be made for paying
all other sums payable hereunder,
then and in that event this Ordinance (except for Section 8(b) hereof) shall cease to be of further
effect, and the covenants, agreements and other obligations of the
City under this Ordinance shall be
discharged and satisfied, and thereupon the Trustee shall at the
request of the City execute and
deliver to the City such instruments
in writing as shall discharge the
lien hereof and enter on the record
such discharge of the lien and such
other instruments as may be reasonably required by the City.
(b) Payment and Discharge of
Bonds. Outstanding Bonds shall be
deemed to have been paid and discharged within the meaning of this
Ordinance, including without limitation, Section 8(a) hereof, if:
(i) the Escrow Agent or Paying
Agent shall hold in special accounts
or sub-accounts, in trust for and
irrevocably committed solely thereto, sufficient moneys; or

The City Record
(ii) the Escrow Agent shall hold
in special accounts or sub-accounts,
in trust for and irrevocably committed solely thereto, direct obligations
of the United States certified by an
independent public accounting firm
of national reputation to be of such
maturities and interest payment
dates and to bear such interest,
without further investment or reinvestment of either the principal
amount thereof or the interest earnings therefrom (likewise to be held
in trust and committed, except as
hereinafter provided), as will be sufficient,
together
with
moneys
referred to in (i) above, for the payment, at their maturities or redemption dates, of all debt charges on the
Bonds to their date of maturity or
redemption, as the case may be, or
if default in such payment shall
have occurred on such date then to
the date of the tender of such payment; provided, that if any Bonds
are to be redeemed prior to the
maturity thereof, notice of such
redemption shall have been duly
given or irrevocable provision satisfactory to the Trustee shall have
been duly made for the giving of
such notice. Any moneys held by the
Escrow Agent in accordance with
the provisions of this Section shall
be invested by the Escrow Agent in
direct obligations of the United
States of America maturing, or
redeemable at the option of the holder, at times and in amounts sufficient to meet payment of debt
charges on the Bonds, as directed by
the Director of Finance. Any income
or interest earned by, or increment
to, the investments held under this
Section shall, to the extent determined from time to time by the
Escrow Agent to be in excess of the
amount required to be held by it for
the purposes of this Section, be
transferred at the time of such
determination as provided in Section
17(a) of the General Bond Ordinance
for unclaimed funds held by a Paying Agent. In the event of nonpresentment of any Bond as described
in Section 17(a) of the General Bond
Ordinance, the moneys held pursuant to this Section shall be held
and paid as provided in said Section
17(a) for unclaimed funds held by a
Paying Agent.
Section 9. Bond Anticipation Notes.
For the purpose of raising money in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds for the purpose set forth in
Section 1 hereof, notes of the City
may be issued in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed Ten Million Four Hundred Thousand Dollars ($10,400,000) (the “Notes”) upon
the direction of the Director of
Finance to be set forth in a certificate providing for the final terms of
the Notes and the sale of the Notes
and signed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”).
Section 10.
Term of the Notes.
The Notes: shall bear interest at
such rate, not exceeding six percent
(6%) per year, as may be fixed by
the Director of Finance of the City
in the Note Certificate of Award;
shall be dated their date of issuance; shall mature on the date set
forth in the Note Certificate of
Award, which shall be no later than
five (5) years from such date of
issuance; shall be subject to redemption by the City at any time
prior to maturity without penalty,
provided that, if the Director of
Finance, based on the advice of a
financial advisor, determines that it

1384

July 9, 2008
is in the best interest of the City in
order to enhance the marketability
of the Notes, the Director of Finance
may cause the Notes to not be
redeemable for a period which ends
no later than the date which is two
(2) years following the date of
issuance of the Notes; shall be designated
“Final
Judgment
Bond
Anticipation Notes”; shall be issued
in such numbers and denominations
as may be requested by the Note
Purchaser
(hereinafter
defined);
and shall be issued in fully registered form (which may be in a book
entry only system) in denominations
of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof. Interest shall be payable semiannually on the dates set forth in
the Note Certificate of Award; provided that if the Notes mature on or
before the end of the twelfth (12th)
month
following
their
date
of
issuance, interest on the Notes shall
be payable at maturity.
U.S. Bank National Association is
appointed to act as the authenticating agent, registrar, transfer agent
and paying agent for the Notes (the
“Note Registrar”).
The Escrow
Agent also shall act as paying
agent for the Notes if the Notes are
held in a book entry system. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, an agreement among the
City, the Note Registrar and the
Escrow Agent (the “Note Registrar
Agreement”) providing for services
relating to the registration, transfer,
exchange and payment of Notes on
terms that are approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. That approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing of
the Note Registrar Agreement by
the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance shall provide for the
payment of the services rendered
and for reimbursement of expenses
incurred pursuant to the Note Registrar Agreement from the proceeds
of the Notes to the extent available
and then from other money lawfully available and appropriated or to
be appropriated for that purpose.
So long as any of the Notes
remain outstanding, the City will
cause the Note Registrar to maintain and keep at its principal corporate trust office all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and transfer of Notes
as provided in this Section (the
“Note Register”). The person in
whose name a Note is registered on
the Note Register shall be regarded
as the absolute owner of that Note
for all purposes of this Ordinance.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Note Registrar shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Any Note may be exchanged for
Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the principal corporate trust
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for exchange
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to do
so in a form satisfactory to the Note
Registrar.
A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender of

July 9, 2008
the Note at the principal corporate
trust office of the Note Registrar
together with an assignment signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer
the Note Registrar shall complete,
authenticate and deliver a new Note
or Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations requested
by the owner equal in the aggregate
to the unmatured principal amount
of the Note surrendered and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Note Registrar shall undertake the exchange
or transfer of Notes only after the
new Notes are signed by the authorized officers of the City. In all
cases of Notes exchanged or transferred, the City shall sign and the
Note Registrar shall authenticate
and deliver Notes in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance. The exchange or transfer
shall be without charge to the
owner, except that the City and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Note Registrar may require
that those charges, if any, be paid
before the procedure is begun for
the exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
obligations of the City, evidencing
the same debt, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under this
ordinance, as the Notes surrendered
upon that exchange or transfer.
Section 11.
Execution and Payment of the Notes. The Notes shall
express upon their faces the purpose
for which they are issued and that
they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Each
Note
shall
be
authenticated by the manual signature of an authorized officer of the
Trustee (as defined therein). The
Notes shall be signed by the City’s
Mayor and by the City’s Director of
Finance.
In accordance with Section 9.96 of the Revised Code and
the foregoing requirement that each
Note bear the manual signature of
an authorized officer of the Trustee,
either or both of the signatures of
the City’s Mayor or of its Director
of Finance may be a facsimile. The
Notes shall bear the seal of the City,
which seal may be a facsimile seal.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the City’s
Charter, the Director of Law shall
prepare the Notes and shall endorse
thereon his approval of the form and
correctness thereof by his manual or
facsimile signature.
Section 12. Sale of the Notes. The
Notes shall first be offered for purchase to the Trustees of the Sinking
Fund and, if not purchased by them,
shall be offered to the Treasury
Investment Account for purchase
and, if not purchased for that
Account, shall be sold to one or
more firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Notes and have been
selected by the Director of Finance
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of those firms (the “Note
Purchaser”) in the principal amount
set forth in a certificate of award to
be executed by the Director of
Finance (the “Note Certificate of
Award”) at not less than par and
accrued interest and at a rate not
exceeding that set forth in Section

The City Record
10 hereof. The proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into the proper fund
and used for the purpose for which
the Notes are being issued under the
provisions of this Ordinance.
Section 13. Security for the Notes.
The Notes shall be the full general
obligations of the City, and the full
faith, credit and revenue of the City
are hereby pledged for the prompt
payment of the same. The par value
to be received from the sale of the
Notes and any excess funds resulting from the issuance of the Notes
shall, to the extent necessary, be
used for the retirement of the Notes
at maturity, together with the interest thereon, and are hereby pledged
for such purpose.
Section 14. Provision for Levying
and Collecting Tax.
During the
year or years while the Notes are
outstanding there shall be levied on
all the taxable property in the City,
in addition to all other taxes but
within tax limitations, a direct tax
annually not less than that which
would have been levied if bonds had
been issued therefor without the
prior issue of the Notes. That tax
shall be and is ordered computed,
certified, levied and extended upon
the tax duplicate and collected by
the same officers, in the same manner and at the same time that taxes
for general purposes for each year
are certified, extended and collected.
That tax shall be placed before and
in preference to all other items and
for the full amount thereof. The
funds derived from the tax levies
required by this Ordinance shall be
placed in the Unvoted Tax Supported Obligations Account, and those
funds, together with the interest collected on them, shall be irrevocably
pledged for the payment of the principal and interest of the Notes or the
Bonds in anticipation of which they
are issued, when and as the same
falls due; provided, however, that in
each year to the extent that revenues are available from other
sources for the payment of the Notes
and Bonds and are appropriated for
such purpose, the amount of such
direct tax upon all of the taxable
property in the City may be reduced
by the amount of such revenues so
available and appropriated.
Section 15.
Official Statement;
Continuing Disclosure.
If, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
a disclosure document (each, an
“Official Statement”) is appropriate
or necessary in connection with the
sale of the Notes or the Bonds, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
prepare or cause to be prepared on
behalf of the City an Official Statement with respect to the Notes or
the Bonds, as the case may be, and
any necessary supplements and to
authorize the use and distribution of
each Official Statement and any supplements. The Director of Finance is
further authorized to sign on behalf
of the City and in her official capacity each Official Statement and any
supplements approved by her. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver on behalf of the
City and in her official capacity
such certificates in connection with
the accuracy of each Official Statement and any supplements as may,
in her judgment, be necessary or appropriate. The Director of Finance is
also authorized to determine and
certify on behalf of the City that
such disclosure document is “deemed
final” by the City within the mean-

1385

9
ing of Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c2-12 the “SEC
Rule.”) The Director of Finance is
authorized to contract for services
for the production and distribution
of preliminary and final Official
Statements, including by printed
and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes or the Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
the only obligated person with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
under the SEC Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information and operating data and
notices, in such manner as may be
required for purposes of the SEC
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for
that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement, amendment
and termination, the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Notes or the Bonds, as the case
may be, in accordance with the SEC
Rule.
The
performance
of
that
agreement shall be subject to the
availability of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the
City would be required to incur to
perform it. The Director of Finance
is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its continuing disclosure agreement,
including the timely provision of
information and notices.
Section 16. Miscellaneous.
(a) Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance and the General
Bond Ordinance shall not apply to
the Bonds or the Notes authorized
herein.
(b) All covenants, terms and provisions of the General Bond Ordinance are fully applicable to the
Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein, and nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to alter or
restrict such full application of the
General Bond Ordinance, except for
the exclusion from application to
the Bonds and the Notes authorized
herein of the provisions of the third
paragraph of Section 13(a) and the
third paragraph of Section 4 of the
General Bond Ordinance pursuant to
Section 2 of this Ordinance.
Section 17.
Captions.
The captions or headings in this Ordinance
are for convenience only and in no
way define, limit or describe the
scope or intent of any provisions or
sections of this Ordinance.
Section
18.
Federal
Tax
Covenants. The City covenants that
it will use, and will restrict the use
and investment of, the proceeds of
the Notes and the Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
and the Bonds will not (i) constitute
private activity bonds, arbitrage
bonds or hedge bonds under Sections
141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Code) or (ii) be treated other than
as bonds to which Section 103(a) of

10
the Code applies, and (b) the interest thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the Notes
and the Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds to the governmental purpose
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Notes and
the Bonds is also made with respect
to all issues any portion of the debt
service on which is paid from proceeds of the Notes or the Bonds
(and, if different, the original issue
and any refunding issues in a series
of refundings), to the extent such
compliance is necessary to assure
exclusion of interest on the Notes
and the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes, and
the officers identified above are
authorized to take actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with respect to the Notes and the
Bonds.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes and the Bonds
is hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Notes and the Bonds
as the City is permitted or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Notes and
the Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates

The City Record
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Notes
and the Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Notes and the
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes and the Bonds.
Section 19.
Bond Insurance and
Ratings. If the Director of Finance
determines it to be in the best interests of the City, based on the written advice of a financial advisor, the
Director of Finance may obtain a
commitment
for
municipal
bond
insurance issued by a nationally recognized municipal bond insurance
company
insuring
the
payment
when due of the principal of and
interest on all or any portion of the
Bonds, request a rating on the
Bonds from one or more nationally
recognized rating organizations, and
do any and all things and take any
and all actions required to secure a
policy of municipal bond insurance
and/or a rating or ratings on the
Bonds including, but not limited to,
the entering into of agreements on
behalf of the City necessary to
secure a policy of municipal bond
insurance. Those agreements may
be in separate documents or included in a Bond Purchase Agreement,
a registrar agreement or a Certificate of Award, or any combination,
and contain terms not materially
inconsistent with this Ordinance.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to secure that insurance or
obtain those ratings is authorized
and approved, and the Director of
Finance is authorized to provide for
the payment of any such amounts
from the proceeds of the Bonds to
the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available that are appropriated or shall
be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 20.
Financial Advisor.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more financial advisors, from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
may rely on the written advice of
any financial advisor so retained.
Any
financial
advisor
employed
under the authority of this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the
transaction and be independent of
the Original Purchasers any other
party interested in the transaction.
Section 21.
Open Meeting Determination.
It is found and determined that all formal actions of this
Council and of any of its committees
concerning and relating to the passage of this Ordinance were taken,
and any of its committees and that
all deliberations of this Council that
resulted in these formal actions
were held, in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal
requirements,
including,
without
limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 22. Findings and Recitals
of Validity. It is hereby determined,
represented and recited that all acts,
conditions and things necessary to
be done precedent to and in the issuing of the Bonds and the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid and
binding obligations of the City have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and due form as

1386

July 9, 2008
required be law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional,
will have been exceeded in the
issuance of the Bonds or the Notes.
It is further found and determined,
and is represented and recited, that
the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32,
33 (including the provisions of Section 33 with respect to readings on
three separate days or dispensing
with such readings by a two-thirds
vote of all members of the Council),
36, 37, 48 and all other applicable
provisions of the City’s Charter and
the rules of this Council have been
fully complied with and this Ordinance was passed in conformity
therewith.
Section 23.
Delivery to County
Auditor. The Director of Finance is
directed to forward a certified copy
of this Ordinance and of the Certificate of Award for the Bonds and
any Note Certificate of Award to the
County Auditor of Cuyahoga County
and to secure a receipt therefor.
Section 24.
Severability.
Each
section and each part of each section of this Ordinance is declared to
be an independent section or part of
a section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent,
it is declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any such
section or part of a section or any
provision thereof, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such
provisions to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to
which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is declared
to be the legislative intent that the
other provisions of this Ordinance
would have been passed independently of such section, or parts of a
section, so held to be invalid.
Section 25. Legislative Intent. All
terms,
conditions,
pledges,
covenants or agreements on the part of
the City provided for in this Ordinance are made by the voluntary act
of the City under its lawful authority, including its authority under its
Charter and Article XVIII of the
Constitution of Ohio.
Nothing
in
this
Ordinance
is
intended to, and no provision hereof
shall be applied in any manner as
would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with respect to any
outstanding bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness, other obligations, trust indentures, trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered into by the
City and for which consideration
was duly received by the City prior
to the passage of this Ordinance or
the General Bond Ordinance.
Section 26.
Emergency Measure.
This Ordinance is declared to be an
emergency measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
property, health and safety of the
City by providing funds to pay the
costs of final judgments, including
court-approved settlements, which
are urgently needed for the benefit
of the City and, provided this Ordinance receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all members elected
to Council, it shall take effect and
be in force immediately upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
date allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

July 9, 2008
Ord. No. 985-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of tree trimming services, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one or two-year
period of the necessary items of tree
trimming services, in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term. The Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts with a term of
two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance,
a financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Public Utilities by comparing the bids received
for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 169155)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 986-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
Paladin Protective Systems, Inc. to
maintain, repair, and upgrade the
Honeywell ProWatch Security Management/Access Control System, the
Honeywell Video Recording System,
the VistaScape Video Detection/Analytic System, and the Southwest
Microwave Perimeter Security Manager Detection/Analytic System, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of
one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Paladin Protective Systems, Inc.
Therefore the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written contracts with Paladin Protective Systems, Inc. on the
basis of its proposal dated May 21,
2008, in the sum not to exceed
$300,000, to maintain, repair, and
upgrade the Honeywell ProWatch
Security Management/Access Control System, the Honeywell Video
Recording System, the VistaScape
Video
Detection/Analytic
System,
and the Southwest Microwave Perimeter
Security
Manager
Detection/Analytic System for a period of
one year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 52 SF
001, request No. 182153.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 987-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials to repair and clean the
decorative and special lighting on
City bridges, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of

1387

11
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one or two-year
period of the necessary items of
labor and materials to repair and
clean the decorative and special
lighting on City bridges, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Utilities by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 169184)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 988-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials to paint poles and other
street-side elements, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

12
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for a one or two-year
period of the necessary items of
labor and materials to paint poles
and other street-side elements, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Utilities by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 169142)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 989-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of decorative
post lights, including installation,
for the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one-year period of
the necessary items of decorative
post lights, including installation, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 169183)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 990-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials needed to clean and maintain insulators, bushings, and lightning arrestors, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of
two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

1388

July 9, 2008
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for a two year period
of the necessary items of labor and
materials needed to clean and maintain insulators, bushings, and lightning arrestors, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 169185)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 991-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
solicit proposals from transportation
companies to provide door-to-door
shuttle services for the public to and
from Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; and to enter into various contracts with the selected
transportation
companies,
for
a
period of three years, with one
option to renew for an additional
two year period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to solicit
proposals from transportation companies to provide door-to-door shuttle services for the public to and
from Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. The award of a contract to a transportation company
shall be by resolution of the Board
of Control.

July 9, 2008
Section 2. That the Director is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with various transportation companies to provide door-todoor shuttle services for the public
to and from Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport under terms
and conditions to be determined by
the Board of Control. Each contract
shall be for a term of three (3)
years, with one option to renew
exercisable by the Director of Port
Control, for an additional two-year
period and under terms and conditions to be determined by the Board
of Control. The Director and the various transportation companies shall
develop necessary service standards
for the door-to-door shuttle services.
Each contract shall require the
transportation company to pay a
percentage of its gross revenues or
a
minimum
annual
guarantee,
whichever is greater.
Section 3. That the contracts
authorized in this ordinance shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 992-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
solicit proposals from transportation
companies to provide point-to-point
shuttle services for the public to and
from Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; and to enter into various contracts with the selected
transportation companies, for a period of three years, with one option
to renew for an additional two year
period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to solicit
proposals from transportation companies to provide point-to-point shuttle services for the public to and
from Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. The awards of a contract to a transportation company
shall be by resolution of the Board
of Control.
Section 2. That the Director is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with various transportation companies to provide point-topoint shuttle services for the public
to and from Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport under terms
and conditions to be determined by
the Board of Control. Each contract
shall be for a term of three (3)
years, with one option to renew
exercisable by the Director of Port
Control, for an additional two-year
period and under terms and conditions to be determined by the Board
of Control. The Director and the various transportation companies shall

The City Record

13

develop necessary service standards
for the point-to-point shuttle service.
Each contract shall require the
transportation company to pay a
percentage of its gross revenues or
a
minimum
annual
guarantee,
whichever is greater.
Section 3. That the contracts
authorized in this ordinance shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 993-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
make alterations and modifications
in Contact No. 66813 with Kokosing
Construction Company, Inc. for the
runway uncoupling and extension
project, for the Department of Port
Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to make
the following alterations and modifications in Contract No. 66813 with
Kokosing
Construction
Company,
Inc. for the runway uncoupling and
extension project, for the Department of Port Control:
Subsidiary Agreements
Taxiway W Safety Area
Items Total
Taxiway W Undercut
Total
Debris — Trash Removal
Total

$929,719.05
26,147.27
534,395.00

Taxiway W Extra
Quantities

36,407.45

Pipe in Foundry Sand
EPA Additions

50,000.00

Replace Cement Treated
Base with P-401
Total Subsidiary
Agreement

+ 29,700.57
$1,606,369.34

Original Contract
Amount
$40,700,213.40
Subsidiary
Agreements

+1,606,369.34

Revised Contract
Amount
$42,306,582.74
which alteration has been recommended in writing by the Director
of Port Control, countersigned by
the Mayor, and consented to by the
surety on the contract, which price
to be paid has been agreed upon in
writing and signed by the Director

1389

of Port Control and the Contractor.
This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the original
contract in the sum of $1,606,369.34,
to be paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 119,
60 SF 126, 60 SF 130, and 60 SF 289,
Request No. 175221.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
Ord. No. 994-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Stonebridge Towers Ltd. to encroach into the public
right-of-way of Detroit Avenue by
installing, using, and maintaining a
natural gas generator and underground power lines.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to Stonebridge Towers Ltd.,
8383 Mentor Avenue, Mentor, Ohio
44060, (“Permittee”), to encroach
into the public right-of-way of Detroit Avenue by installing, using,
and maintaining a natural gas generator and underground power lines
at the following location:
STONEBRIDGE PLACE
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT
Situated in the State of Ohio,
County of Cuyahoga, City of Cleveland, being part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot 70, said parcel
being more fully described as follows:
Commencing for reference at the
intersection of the northeasterly line
of West 24th Street (formerly Flint
Street), 33 feet wide, and the northwesterly line of Detroit Avenue, of
variable width;
Thence
North
34°-50’-55”
East
along the northwesterly line of
Detroit Avenue, a distance of 143.73
feet to the TRUE PLACE of BEGINNING of the Encroachment Permit
herein described;
Course No. 1: thence continuing
North 34°-50'-55" East, along the
northwesterly line of Detroit Avenue, a distance of 8.53 feet to a
point;
Course No. 2: thence South 09°-50'50" East, a distance of 71.17 feet to
a point;
Course No. 3: thence North 42°-16'20" East, a distance of 5.40 feet to
a point;
Course No. 4: thence South 47°-43'40" East, a distance of 21.00 feet to
a point;
Course No. 5: thence South 42°-16'20" West, a distance of 28.00 feet to
a point;

14
Course No. 6: thence North 47°-43'40" West, a distance of 21.00 feet to
a point;
Course No. 7: thence North 42°-16'20" East, a distance of 15.00 feet to
a point;
Course No. 8: thence North 09°-50'50" West, a distance of 69.78 feet to
the true place of beginning, said
easement containing 0.0232 Acre of
land more or less, as prepared in
April of 2008 by Robert A. Dorner,
Registered Professional Land Surveyor No. 6943 for and on behalf of
McSteen & Associates, Inc. under
Project Number 07-326, and being
subject to all legal highways and
easements of record.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion
of the Director of Law, Permittee
has properly indemnified the City
against any loss that may result
from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 995-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 64848 with Intergraph Corporation to upgrade the Fire/EMS CAD
System
to
Version
8,
for
the
Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1.That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into an amendment to Contract No.
64848 with Intergraph Corporation
to upgrade the Fire/EMS CAD System to Version 8, for the Department
of Public Safety.

The City Record
Section 2. That the cost of the
amendment shall not exceed $100,000
and shall be paid from Fund No. 11
SF 006, Request No. 160296.
Section 3. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 996-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to apply for and accept a grant
from Ohio Emergency Management
Agency for the 2007 Metropolitan
Medical Response System Program;
authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals; and authorizing the purchase by
one or more requirement or standard
contracts of materials, equipment,
services, and supplies, including
training, conducting exercises, and
program planning, needed to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $258,145.00, from Ohio
Emergency Management Agency to
conduct the 2007 Metropolitan Medical Response System (MMRS) Program; that the Director is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes described in the notice of
award and grant agreement for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the notice of
award and grant agreement for the
grant, File No. 996-08-A, made a part
of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation, is
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written standard purchase contracts and written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the re-

1390

July 9, 2008
quirements during the grant period
of the necessary items of materials,
equipment, services, and supplies,
including training, conducting exercises, and program planning, needed
to implement the grant, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Department of Public Safety. Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 6. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 7. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 8. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized in this
ordinance shall be paid from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 997-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to apply for and accept a grant from
Ohio Department of Public Safety
for the 2007 Buffer Zone Protection
Program; authorizing the purchase
by one or more requirement contracts of materials, equipment, supplies and services; authorizing the
Director to employ one or more professional consultants; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies,
entities,
or
individuals
to
implement the grant, for the Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the

July 9, 2008
approximate amount of $192,500, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the Ohio Department of Public
Safety to conduct the 2007 Buffer
Zone Protection Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 997-08-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant term of the necessary
items of materials, equipment, supplies and services, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
Department of Public Safety. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 5. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public
Safety
is
authorized
to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
grant as described in the file.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomi-

The City Record
nation of the Director of Public
Safety from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Safety for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Safety, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with or
make payments to agencies, entities,
or individuals to implement the
grant as described in the file.
Section 9. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 998-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
MCPc Inc. to provide network integration services, for the Department
of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
MCPc Inc. Therefore the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written contracts with
MCPc Inc. on the basis of its proposal dated May 14, 2008, in the total
sum of $99,987.80, to provide network
integration services, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies, for the Department of
Public Safety, for a period of one
year with two one-year options to
renew. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be paid from Fund
No. 20 SF 509, Request No. 160293.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.

1391

15
Ord. No. 1000-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an amendment to Contract No. 64748 with
Zaremba, Inc., or its designee, for
the sale and redevelopment of Cityowned urban renewal parcels located on East 12th and East 13th
Streets, and authorizing the sale of
City-owned property to Zaremba,
Inc., or its designee.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 85405, passed May 23, 2005, this Council authorized a development agreement with Zaremba, Inc., or its
designee, for the sale and redevelopment of City-owned urban renewal parcels located on East 12th and
East 13th Streets, and authorized
the sale of City-owned property to
Zaremba, Inc., or its designee; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 92407, passed July 11, 2007, this Council authorized certain modifications
to the development agreement and
promissory note, Contract No. 64748;
and
Whereas, additional modifications
to the contract are desired to increase the number units on Block
One, to decrease the number, and
modify the type of units on Block
Three, and to amend the project
timetable; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an amendment to
Contract No. 64748 with Zaremba,
Inc., or its designee, to increase the
number of units on Block One by 21
units, to decrease the number of
units on Block Three by 62 units, to
modify the types of units on Block
Three, and to amend the project
timetable.
Section 2. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1012-08.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on East 79th
Street to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and

16
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 119-26-065
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly part of Sublot No. 5 Harris and
Andrew Jaynes’ Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
407, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 60 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 50 feet front on the Easterly
side of East 79th Street (formerly
East Madison Avenue), and extending back of equal width 100-feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Restriction of record and zoning
Ordinances if any.
P. P. No. 119-26-066
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 4 in H. and A. Jaynes Subdivision of part of Original Lot No.
407, as shown by the recorded plat of
said Subdivision in Volume 3 of
Maps, Page 60 of Cuyahoga County
Records, said Sublot No. 4 has a
frontage of 50.feet on the Easterly
side of East 79th Street (formerly
Madison Avenue) arid extends back
a distance of 170 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
P. P. No. 119-26-067
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
3 in Harris and Andrew Jaynes Subdivision of part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 407 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page
60 of Cuyahoga County Records, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordi-

The City Record
nance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1013-08.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on Platt Avenue
to Jacqueline L. Parker.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Jacqueline L. Parker.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-02-042
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio: and known as being Sublot No.
7 in Rogers, O’Brien, McNamara and
McGinness Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
415. Said Sublot No. 7 has a frontage

1392

July 9, 2008
of 40 feet on the Southerly side of
Platt Avenue, S.E. and is 150 feet
deep, as per plat, of said Allotment
recorded in Volume 4 of Maps, Page
9 of Cuyahoga County Records, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1014-08.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on East 108th and
East 110th Streets to Union Miles Development Corporation or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

July 9, 2008
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Union
Miles Development Corporation or
designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 135-09-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
196 in the Union Heights Subdivision of part Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 450, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 43 of Maps,
Page
20
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 108th
Street and extending back between
parallel lines 117 feet deep, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P. P. No. 135-14-079
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as Sublot No. 465
in The City Allotment Company’s
East Boulevard Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
No. 451, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 68 of Maps, Page 8
of Cuyahoga County Records. Subject to all legal highways and also
subject to the building restrictions
and reservations as contained in the
deed from the City of Cleveland to
Joseph S. Wieder, dated August 30,
1919, and filed for record September
9, 1919 under File No. 1098568 and
recorded in Volume 2290, Page 277
of Cuyahoga County Records.
Also subject to the conditions and
restrictions as contained is the deed
from The City Allotment Company
to The Municipal Realty Company,
same being Land Title Registration
Document No. 6919.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1015-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire and reconvey properties owned by Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland at Carnegie Avenue and Ontario Street for
the purposes of carrying out the
terms of the First Amended and Restated Agreement relating to Ownership, Financing, Construction and
Operation of a Sports Facility and
Related Economic and Redevelopment Projects.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
entered into a First Amended and
Restated Agreement Relating to
Ownership, Financing, Construction
and Operation of a Sports Facility
and Related Economic and Redevelopment Projects, on September 15,
1992, with Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater
Cleveland (“Gateway”) and Cuyahoga County, Ohio (the “Three
Party Agreement”); and
Whereas, under Section 2.10 of the
Three Party Agreement, Gateway
has discharged, or will discharge,
the Stadium Bonds as defined therein, and has conveyed, or will convey, to the City: (1) unencumbered
fee title to an exclusive use and possession of the Stadium and any additions
thereto
which
have
been
financed by the proceeds of the Stadium Bonds, and (2) the Field and
Field Improvements which shall be
encumbered by and subject to the
Ground Lease and the Gateway
Common Areas, which are encumbered by and subject to the Gateway
CAM Agreement and the Arena
Lease
Agreements
(all
defined
terms shall have the meanings set
forth in the Three Party Agreement); and
Whereas, under Section 2.10 of the
Three Party Agreement, Gateway
has terminated or will terminate the
Lease with the Cleveland Indians
Baseball Club (“Cleveland Indians”)
prior to the conveyance to the City;
and
Whereas, under Section 2.10(C) of
the Three Party Agreement, the City
desires to acknowledge receipt of
title from Gateway and desires to reconvey title to the foregoing properties to Gateway, and under Section
2.10(C) of the Three Party Agreement requires Gateway to remain in
existence for purposes of entering
into negotiations with the Cleveland
Indians to continue the duties and
responsibilities set forth in Gateway’s Articles of Incorporation and
Section 307.696 of the Revised Code,
which duties and responsibilities
have not yet been fully completed or
which may be of an ongoing nature;
and

1393

17
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section 2.10
of the Three Party Agreement and
as an exception to the provisions of
Chapter 181 and 183 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to acquire
from Gateway for the price of one
dollar and other value consideration,
determined as fair market value, the
following property for the purpose
of carrying out the terms and purposes of the Three Party Agreement
and to enable Gateway to enter into
negotiations to continue the duties
and responsibilities set forth in its
Articles of Incorporation and Section
307.696 of the Revised Code, which
duties and responsibilities have not
yet been fully completed or are of
an ongoing nature, including to
negotiate a new lease agreement
with the Cleveland Indians Baseball
Club:
JACOBS’ FIELD COMMON AREA
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublot Nos. 19 and 56, and part of
Sublot Nos. 2, 3, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 36,
83, 84, 85, and 43 to 55, both inclusive, in A.W. Walworth’s Subdivision of part of Original Two Acre
Lot Nos. 117 to 124, both inclusive,
and 130 to 133, both inclusive, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume P of Deeds, Page 558 of Cuyahoga County Records. Being part of
Sublot Nos. 42, 43, 44 and 45, in the
David Long Subdivision of part of
Original Two Acre Lot Nos. 109 to
116, both inclusive, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume K of Deeds,
Page
508
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records. Part of East 7th Street, 16.5
feet in width, part of East 9th Place,
16.5 feet in width, part of Wigman
Court S.E., 16.5 feet in width, all
now vacated. Part of Woodland
Avenue S.E., 99 feet in width, as
shown by the vacation plat in Volume 246 of Maps, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County Records. Part of Eagle
Avenue S.E., 66 feet in width, and
part of Ontario Street, of various
widths, as vacated by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, Ohio by
Ordinance Number 2041-91, passed
November 11, 1991, further being
part of Block “A” as shown by the
Map of Consolidation for GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
OF
GREATER
CLEVELAND, recorded in Volume
257 of Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga
County Records, together forming a
parcel
of
land
bounded
and
described as follow:
Beginning in the southerly line of
Satchel Paige Drive S.E., 38 feet in
width, as shown on the Dedication
Map of Satchel Paige Drive, Jesse
Owens Way, Ontario Street Widening
and
Rocky
Colavito,
Drive
revised February 1, 1994 and not yet
recorded, at its point of intersection
with a line drawn perpendicular
thereto and distant 5.00 feet easterly of the easterly wall of the
Kitchen Building, said, point being
distant Due west, 116.03 feet as measured along said southerly line of

18
Satchel Paige Drive S.E., from the
westerly line of East 9th Street, 99
feet in width;
Course No. 1: thence Due South
along said parallel line, 34.17 feet to
a point;
Course No. 2: thence Due West
along a line drawn parallel to said
southerly line of Satchel Paige
Drive S.E., and distant 5.00 feet
southerly of the southerly wall face
of said Kitchen Building, 17.30 feet
to its point of intersection with a
line drawn parallel with and distant
easterly 5.00 feet by rectangular
measurement, from the easterly wall
of the picnic area;
Course No. 3: thence Due South
along said parallel line, 88.94 feet to
its point of intersection with a line
drawn perpendicular to the easterly
line of East 9th Street and distant
northerly 5.00 feet, from the northerly wall of the stair tower and ticket booth;
Course No. 4: thence Due East
along said perpendicular line, 120.42
feet to its point of intersection with
a line drawn parallel with and distant easterly 5.00 feet by rectangular measurement, from the easterly
wall of said stair tower and ticket
booth;
Course No. 5: thence Due South
along said parallel line, 185.99 feet
to its point of intersection with a
line drawn perpendicular to said
east line of East 9th Street and distant 5.00 feet northerly, from the
northerly wall of Jacobs’ Field;
Course No. 6: thence Due East
along said perpendicular line, 1.59
feet to its point, of intersection with
a line drawn parallel with and distant easterly 5.00, by rectangular
measurement, from the easterly wall
of Jacobs’ Field;
Course No. 7: thence South 0°- 00'23" East along said parallel line,
239.08 feet to its point of intersection with the easterly prolongation
of the southerly face of the wall of
the entrance to the player’s parking
area;
Course No. 8: thence North 89°- 57'45" West along said prolongation
and along said southerly face, 17.90
feet to an angle point therein;
Course No. 9: thence South 0°- 02'l5" West along the easterly face of
the wall of the player’s parking
area, 74.12 feet to an angle paint
therein;
Course No. 10: thence South 67°31'- 25" West along the southeasterly face of the wall of the player’s
parking area and along the southeasterly face of the wall of the cooling Tower, 161.41 feet to the most
southerly corner thereof;
Course No. 11: thence North 22°27'- 14" West along the southwesterly face of the wall of said cooling
tower, 71.95 feet to the most westerly corner thereof;
Course No. 12: thence North 67°27'- 28" East along the northwesterly face of the wall of said cooling
tower, 20.77 feet to its point of intersection with the southwesterly face
of the wall of the player’s parking
area;
Course No. 13: thence North 22°28'- 11" West along said southwesterly face, 48.33 feet to its point of
intersection with a line drawn parallel with and distant southeasterly
5.00 feet by rectangular measurement, from the southeasterly wall of
a stair tower;

The City Record
Course No. 14: thence South 67°31'- 49" West along said parallel
line, 59.44 feet to a point;
Course No. 15: thence North 22°30'- 54" West, 5.00 feet to a point
which is distant 5.00 feet from the
southwesterly wall face of said stair
tower;
Course No. 16: thence South 67°29'- 06" West in a direct line, 220.56
feet to a point which is 5.00 feet
from the northeasterly wall of an
elevator and stair tower
Course No. 17: thence South 22°30'- 54" East in a direct line, 5.00
feet to point;
Course No, 18: thence South 67°30'- 00" West, along a line drawn
parallel with and distant 5.00 feet
by rectangular measurement, from
the southeasterly wall of said elevator and stair tower, 29.58 feet to
an angle point therein;
Course No. 19: thence South 71°56'- 59" West continuing along said
parallel line, 12.83 feet to an angle
point therein;
Course No. 20: thence south 78°44'- 08" West continuing along said
parallel line, 48.75 feet to a point;
Course No. 21: thence North 5°- 41'35" West along a radial line, 5.48
feet to its intersection with a curved
line, said radial line being distant
westerly 5.00 feet from the westerly
wall of said elevator and stair
tower;
Course No. 22: thence northwesterly along the arc of a circle deflecting to the right having a radius of
269.00 feet, whose chord bears North
53°- 02'- 40" West, 364.50 feet an arc
distance of 400.47 feet to its point of
intersection with a line drawn parallel with and distant southwesterly
5.00 feet by rectangular measurement, from the southwesterly wall
of a stair and elevator tower;
Course No. 23: thence North 26°06'- 35" West along said parallel
line, 84.33 feet to its point of intersection with a line drawn parallel
with and distant southwesterly 5.00
feet by rectangular measurement,
from the southwesterly wall of the
Administration Building;
Course No. 24: thence North 26°04'- 00" West along said parallel
line, 265.09 feet to its point of intersection with the southeasterly line
of said Jesse Owens Way S.E., 44
feet wide;
Course No. 25: thence South 63°55'- 12" West along said southeasterly line, 29.66 feet to its point of
intersection with the northeasterly
line of said Ontario Street;
Course No. 26: thence South 26°04'- 48" East along said northeasterly line, 591.77 feet to its intersection with the northerly line of
Carnegie Avenue S.E., of various
widths;
Course No. 27: thence North 89°51'- 25" East along said northerly
line, 47.86 feet to a point of curvature therein;
Course No. 28: thence continuing
easterly along the curved northerly
line of Carnegie Avenue S.E., being
the arc of a circle deflecting to the
right, having a radius of 718.97 feet
whose chord bears South 85°- 51'-26"
East 107.46 feet, an arc distance of
107.56 feet to a point of reverse curvature therein;
Course No. 29; thence continuing
easterly along the curved northerly
line of Carnegie Avenue S.E., being
the arc of a circle deflecting to the
left, having a radius of 622.97 feet

1394

July 9, 2008
whose chord bears South 84°- l3'- 43"
East, 57.76 feet an arc distance of
57.78 feet to a point;
Course No. 30: thence South 74°32'- 46" East continuing along the
northerly line of Carnegie Avenue
S.E., 7.28 feet to an angle point
therein
Course No. 31: thence North 89°-5l'25"
East
continuing
along
the
northerly line of Carnegie Avenue
S.E., 543.54 feet to its intersection,
with said westerly line of East 9th
Street, 99 feet wide;
Course No. 32: thence Due North
along said westerly line, 717.03 feet
to its intersection with said southerly line of Satchel Paige Drive S.E.,
Course No. 33: thence Due West
along said southerly line, 116.03 feet
to the place of beginning, containing within said boundaries 90,344
square feet of land 2.0740 acres),
according to a survey by Garrett &
Associates, Inc., Registered Engineers and Surveyors, made in October, 1994.
In addition the above described
parcel is subject to various easements and the subsurface lease of
Jacobs’ Field, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
The bearings used herein are
based on an assumed meridian and
are sued to denote angles only.
JACOBS’ FIELD SUBSURFACE LEASE
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublot Nos. 8 to 18, both inclusive,
Sublot Nos. 22 to 35, both inclusive,
Sublot Nos. 37 to 42, both inclusive,
and part of Sublot Nos. 2 to 7, both
inclusive, Sublot Nos.19, 20, 21, 36, 83,
84, 85, and 43 to 52, both inclusive,
in A.W. Walworth’s Subdivision of
part of Original Two Acre Lot Nos.
117 to 124, both inclusive, and 130 to
133, both inclusive, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume P of Deeds,
Page
558
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records. Being part of Sublot Nos. 1
and 36 to 44, both inclusive in the
David Long Subdivision of part of
Original Two Acre Lot Nos. 109 to
116, both inclusive, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume K of Deeds,
Page
508
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records. Part of East 7th Street, 16.5
feet in width, part of East 9th Place,
16.5 feet in width, part of Wigman
Court S.E., 16.5 feet in width, all
now vacated. Part of Woodland
Avenue S.E., 99 feet in width, as
shown by the vacation plat in Volume 246 of Maps, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County Records. Part of Eagle
Avenue S.E., 66 feet in width, and
part of Ontario Street, of various
widths, as vacated by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, Ohio by Ordinance
Number
2041-91,
passed
November 11, 1991, further being
part of Block “A” as shown by the
Map of Consolidation for GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
OF
GREATER
CLEVELAND, recorded in Volume
257 of Maps, Page 34 of Cuyahoga
County Records, together forming a
parcel
of
land
bounded
and
described as follow:
Beginning in the southerly line of
Satchel Paige Drive S.E., 38 feet in
width as shown on the Dedication
Map of Satchel Paige Drive, Jesse
Owens Way, Ontario Street Widening
and
Rocky
Colavito
Drive,
revised February 1, 1994 and not yet

July 9, 2008
recorded at its point of intersection
with a line drawn perpendicular
thereto and distant 5.00 feet easterly of the easterly wall of the
Kitchen Building, said point being
distant Due West, 116.03 feet as
measured along said southerly line
of Satchel Paige Drive S.E., from the
westerly line of East 9th Street, 99
feet in width;
Course No. 1: thence Due South
along said parallel line, 34.17 feet to
a point;
Course No. 2: thence Due West
along a line drawn parallel to said
southerly line of Satchel Paige
Drive SE., and distant 5.00 feet
southerly of the southerly wall face
of said Kitchen Building, 17.30 feet
to its point of intersection with a
line drawn, parallel with and distant easterly 5.00 feet by rectangular measurement, from the easterly
wall of the picnic area;
Course No. 3: thence Due South
along said parallel line, 88.94 feet to
its point of intersection with a line
drawn perpendicular to the easterly
line of East 9th street and distant
northerly 5.00 feet from the northerly wall of the stair tower and ticket booth;
Course No. 4: thence Due East
along said perpendicular line, 120.42
feet to its point of intersection with
a line drawn parallel with and distant easterly 5.00 feet by rectangular measurement from the easterly
wall of said stair tower and ticket
booth;
Course No. 5: thence Due South
along said parallel line, 185.99 feet
to its point of intersection with a
line drawn perpendicular to said
east line of East 9th street and distant 5.00 feet northerly from the
northerly wall of Jacobs’ Field;
Course No. 6: thence Due East
along said perpendicular line, 1.59
feet to its point of intersection with
a line drawn parallel with and distant easterly 5.00, by rectangular
measurement from the easterly wall
of Jacobs’ Field;
Course No. 7: thence South 0°- 00'23" East along said parallel line,
239.08 feet to its point of intersection with the easterly prolongation
of the southerly face of the wall of
the entrance to the player’s parking
area;
Course No. 8: thence North 89°- 57'45" West along said prolongation
and along said southerly face, 17.90
feet to an angle point therein;
Course No. 9: thence South 0°- 02'15" West along the easterly face of
the wall of the players parking
area, 74.12 feet to an angle point
therein;
Course No. 10: thence South 67°31'- 25" West along the southeasterly face at the wall of the players
parking area, 118.41 feet to a point;
Course No. 11: thence South 22°28'- 35" East, 5.00 feet to a point;
Course No. 12: thence South 67°31'- 25" West along a line drawn
parallel with and distant southeasterly 5.00 feet, by rectangular measurement from the southeasterly
wall of the cooling tower, 48.00 feet
to a point;
Course No 13: thence North 22°27'- 14" West along a line drawn
parallel with and distant southwesterly 5.00 feet, by rectangular
measurement from the southwesterly wall of said cooling tower, 81.95
feet to a point;

The City Record
Course No. 14: thence North 67°27'- 28" East along a line drawn
parallel with and distant northwesterly 5.00, by rectangular measurement from the northwesterly wall of
said cooling tower, 25.76 feet to its
point of intersection with the southwesterly face of the wall of the
player’s parking area;
Course No. 15: thence North 22°28'- 11" West along said southwesterly face, 43.33 feet to its point of
intersection with a line drawn parallel with and distant southeasterly
5.00 feet, by rectangular measurement from the southeasterly wall of
a stair tower;
Course No. 16: thence South 67°31'- 49" West along said parallel
line, 59.44 feet to a point;
Course No. 17: thence South 67°29'- 03" West in a direct line, 220.56
feet to a point which is 5.00 feet
from the northeasterly wall of an
elevator and stair tower;
Course No. 18: thence South 67°30'- 00" West along a line drawn
parallel with and distant 5.00 feet,
by rectangular measurement from
the southeasterly wall of said elevator and stair tower, 29.58 feet to
an angle point therein;
Course No. 19: thence South 71°56'- 59" West continuing along said
parallel line, 12.83 feet to an angle
point therein;
Course No. 20: thence South 78°44'- 08" West continuing along said
parallel line 48.75 feet to a point;
Course No. 21: thence northwesterly along the arc of a circle deflecting to the right having a radius of
274.48 feet, whose chord bears North
51°- 13'- 02" West, 384.61 feet, an arc
distance of 426.13 feet to its point of
intersection with a line drawn parallel with and distant southwesterly
5.00 feet, by rectangular measurement from the southwesterly wall of
a stair and elevator tower;
Course No. 22: thence North 26°06'- 35" West along said parallel
line, 66.16 feet to its point of intersection with a line drawn parallel
with and distant southwesterly 5.00
feet, by rectangular measurement
from the southwesterly wall of the
Administration Building;
Course No. 23: thence North 26°04'- 00" West along said parallel
line, 265.09 feet to its point of intersection with the southeasterly line
of said Jesse Owens Way S.E., 44
feet wide;
Course No. 24; thence North 63°55'- 12" East along said southeasterly line, 79.59 feet to its point of
intersection with the southwesterly
face of the Underground Service
area;
Note: the subsurface lease for the
portion within the boundary of the
underground Service Area has an
upper limit of the top of the waterproofing.
Course No. 25: thence North 26°04'- 48" West along said southwesterly face of the underground Service
Area, 69.80 feet to its intersection
with the southwesterly prolongation
of the center line of the wall dividing the Underground Service Area;
Course No. 26: thence North 63°55'- 12" East along said southwesterly prolongation and the center line
of said wall, 16.51 feet to a corner
therein;
Course No. 27: thence South 26°04'- 48" East continuing along said
center line, 10.90 feet to a corner
therein;

1395

19
Course No. 28: thence South 63°55'- 12" West continuing along said
center line, 9.98 feet to an inner corner therein;
Course No. 29: thence South 26°04'- 48" East continuing along said
center line, 31.98 feet to an inner
corner therein;
Course No. 30: thence North 63°55'- 12" East continuing along said
center line, 42.35 feet to an angle
point therein;
Course No. 31: thence North 1°- 36'48" East continuing along said center line, 34.32 feet to an angle point
therein;
Course No. 32: thence North 26°04'- 48" West continuing along said
center line, 29.03 feet to a corner
therein;
Course No. 33: thence North 63°55'- 12" East continuing along said
center line, 255.67 feet to an inner
corner therein;
Course No. 34: thence North 26°04'- 48" West continuing along said
center line, 5.33 feet to a corner
therein;
Course No. 35: thence North 63°55'- 12" East continuing along said
center line and its northeasterly prolongation, 28.50 feet to its intersection with the northeasterly face of
the Underground Service Area;
Course No. 36: thence South 26°04'- 48" East along said northerly
face, 67.15 feet to an inner corner
thereof;
Course No. 37: thence Due East
along a northerly face of the Underground Service Area, 19.20 feet to a
corner thereof;
Course No. 38: thence Due South
along an easterly face of the Underground Service Area, 14.00 feet to a
corner thereof;
Course No. 39: thence due West
along a southerly line of the Underground Service Area, 19.42 feet to an
inner corner thereof said Southerly
line also being the northerly line of
said Satchel Paige Drive S.E.;
Course No. 40: thence due South
along an easterly face of the Underground Service Area, 38.00 feet to its
point
of
intersection
with
the
southerly line of said Satchel Paige
Drive S.E.;
Course No. 41: thence Due East
along said southerly line, 506.61 feet
to the place of beginning, containing within said boundaries 570,685
square feet of land (13.1011 Acres),
according to a survey by Garrett &
Associates, Inc., Registered Engineers and Surveyors, made in October, 1994.
In addition the above described
parcel is subject to a lease to the
City of Cleveland for the garage,
two pedestrian bridge easements
and a water line easement to the
City of Cleveland, the rights of the
Gund Arena for the use of the emergency exit form the Underground
Service Area, the lease of the Playing Field and any easements of
record, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
The bearings used herein are
based on an assumed meridian and
are used only to denote angles.
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF THE
CMS SITE
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublot Numbers 3 to 56, both inclusive and part of Sublot Numbers 1,
2, 83, 84 and 85 in A.W. Walworth’s

20
Subdivision of part of Original Two
Acre Lot Numbers 117 to 124, both
inclusive and 130 to 133, both inclusive, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume P of Deeds, Page 558 of
Cuyahoga County Records, and all
of Sublot Numbers 2 to 14, both
inclusive, and 29 to 45, both inclusive and part of Sublot Number 1 in
the David Long Subdivision of part
of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers
109 to 116, both inclusive as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume K of
Deeds, Page 508 of Cuyahoga County Records and part of Sublot Numbers 117 to 122, both inclusive in
Walworth and Kelly’s Allotment of
part of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 125 to 132, both inclusive, 213
to 220, both inclusive and part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot
Number 487, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps Page
26 of Cuyahoga County Records,
part of East 6th Street, (12 feet
wide), East 7th Street, (16.5 feet
wide), East 9th Place (16.5 feet
wide), Austin Court, S.E., (12 feet
wide) Wigman Court, SE., (16.5 feet
wide) and Woodland Avenue S.E.,
(99 feet wide) all now vacated and
part of Ontario Street, East 4th
Street, (99 feet wide), Bolivar Road,
S.E., (66 feet wide), Eagle Avenue,
S.E., (66 feet wide) and Carnegie
Avenue, S.E., all vacated by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio by Ordinance Number 2041-91
passed November11, 1991 and part of
Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 211
and 212 and together forming a parcel of land bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning in the northerly line of
Carnegie Avenue, S.E. (99 feet wide)
at its point of intersection with the
westerly line of East 9th Street, (99
feet wide);
Course No. 1: thence South 89°- 51'25" West, along the northerly line of
Carnegie Avenue, S.E., 543.54 feet to
its intersection with the northeasterly line of Woodland Avenue, S.E.,
99 feet wide, (now vacated) as
shown by the Vacation Plat of part
of Woodland Avenue S.E., as recorded in Volume 246 of Maps, Page 16
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Course No. 2: thence North 74°- 32'
46" West, along the northerly line of
Carnegie Avenue, S.E., 7.28 feet to
its intersection with the relocated
northerly line of Carnegie Avenue,
S.E.,
said
line
also
being
the
southerly line of that portion of
Carnegie Avenue, S.E., vacated by
the Council of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, by Ordinance Number 2041-91,
passed November 11, 1991;
Course No. 3: thence along the
relocated northerly line of Carnegie
Avenue S.E., being the arc of a circle deflecting to the right, 57.79 feet
to a point of reverse curvature, said
curved line having a radius of 622.97
feet and a chord which bears North
84°- 13'- 43" West a distance of 57.76
feet;
Course No. 4: thence continuing
along said relocated northerly line
of Carnegie Avenue S.E., being the
arc of a circle deflecting to the left,
107.56 feet to a point of tangency,
said curved line having a radius of
718.97 feet and a chord which bears
North 85°- 51'- 26" West a distance
of 107.46 feet;
Course No. 5: thence continuing
along said relocated northerly line
at Carnegie Avenue S.E., South 89°
51'- 25" West 47.86 feet to its inter-

The City Record
section with the northeasterly relocated line of Ontario Street said line
also being the southwesterly line of
that portion of Ontario Street vacated
by
said
Ordinance
Number
2041.91;
Course No. 6: thence North 26°- 04'
48" West, along said northeasterly
relocated line of Ontario Street 59.86
feet to its intersection with the
southwesterly line of vacated Woodland Avenue S.E. and other lands as
shown by the Vacation Plat of Part
of Woodland Avenue SE. as recorded in Volume 246 of Maps, Page 16
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Course No. 7: thence along a southwesterly line of lands shown on said
Vacation Plat, along the arc of a circle deflecting to the right, 10.39 feet
to a point of tangency, said curve
line having a radius of 90.00 feet
and a chord which bears North 29°
42' 53" West a distance of 10.38 feet;
Course No. 8: thence North 26° 24'
32" West along said southwesterly
line of lands so vacated and along
the southwesterly line of vacated
Woodland Avenue S.E., 288.46 feet to
a point of curvature;
Course No. 9: thence northwesterly
along a northwesterly line of vacated Woodland Avenue S.E., along the
arc of a circle deflecting to the right,
22.41 feet to its intersection with the
relocated northeasterly line of Ontario Street, said curved line having
a radius of 102.50 feet and a chord
which bears North 20°- 08'- 47" West
a distance 22.36 feet;
Course No. 10: thence North 26°04'- 48" West, along the relocated
northeasterly line of Ontario Street,
said line also being the southwesterly line of that portion so vacated
by Ordinance Number 2041-91, 641.58
feet to an angle point therein;
Course No. 11: thence South 89°56'- 58" West, 21.18 feet to the original northeasterly line of Ontario
Street;
Course No. 12: thence North 24°35'- 03" West along the original
northeasterly line of Ontario Street,
439.99 feet to its intersection with
the southerly line of Huron Road,
S.E. (94 feet wide);
Course No. 13: thence South 89°58'- 33" East, along the southerly
line of Huron Road, S.E., 890.65 feet
to its intersection with the westerly
line of East 7th Street, (20 feet
wide);
Course No. 14: thence South 0°- 03'02" East, along the westerly line of
East 7th Street, and its southerly
prolongation to its intersection with
the southerly line of Bolivar Road,
S.E., (66 feet wide);
Course No. 15: thence North 89°56'- 58" East, along the southerly
line of Bolivar Road, S.E., 525.76 feet
to its intersection with the westerly
line of East 9th Street, (99 feet
wide);
Course No. 16: thence Due South
along the westerly line of East 9th
Street, 867.49 feet to the place of
beginning and containing within
said
boundaries
1,202,025
square
feet, (27.5947 acres) of land according to a survey by Garrett & Associates Inc., Registered Engineers
and Surveyors, Revised November,
1991 be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Mayor, Director of Economic Development, or the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies are authorized to execute on
behalf of the City of Cleveland all

1396

July 9, 2008
necessary documents to acquire and
to convey the properties and to
employ and pay all fees for title
companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental audits, and
all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the properties.
Section 3. That this Council finds
that the conveyances constitute a
public purpose.
Section 4. That at the direction of
the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to convey the property
previously described in this ordinance to Gateway for fair market
value or other valuable consideration as determined by the Board of
Control, taking into account all
restrictions, reversionary interests
and similar encumbrances placed by
the City of Cleveland in the deed of
conveyance. That as part of this
transaction the deed shall require
Gateway to enter into a lease agreement with the Cleveland Indians,
substantially similar to the copy
placed in File No. 1015-08-A.
Section 5. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain necessary provisions,
including
restrictive
reversionary
interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the parties as
their respective interests require.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1016-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Section 301.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1382-91,
passed June 3, 1991, relating to
design and planning review fees.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 301.01 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1382-91, passed June
3, 1991, is repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Legislation, Finance.

July 9, 2008

The City Record

21

FIRST READING ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1001-08.
By Council Member Reed.
An ordinance expanding the Union Miles Business Revitalization District by designating a portion of Kinsman Road and Union Avenue as shown shaded on the attached map (Map Change No. 2267, Page 10).
Whereas, the Board of Trustees of the Mount Pleasant Development Corporation has submitted a written request
dated June 26, 2008 to the City Planning Commission for expansion of the Mount Pleasant Business Revitalization District, established by Ordinance Numbers 1983-99 and 2173-03, in accordance with the procedures outlined
in Chapter 303 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, such request is accompanied by a map identifying the boundaries of the proposed District; and
Whereas, the City Planning Commission has determined that the proposed expansion area meets the criteria
for designation contained in Section 303.04 of Chapter 303 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mount Pleasant Business Revitalization District is hereby expanded to include a portion of
Kinsman Road and Union Avenue as shown on the map attached and in File No. 1001-08-A.
Section 2. That the designation of the area described in Section 1 hereof as the Mount Pleasant Business
Revitalization District shall be noted on the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office of
the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated
for such purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1397

The City Record

22

July 9, 2008

Ord. No. 1002-08.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use, Area and Height Districts of property located on the northeast corner of West
85th Street and Madison Avenue to Local Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District
(Map Change No. 2266, Sheet No. 1).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of land bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Madison Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of West 85th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 85th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation
of the northerly most line of a parcel of land conveyed to 15 PPA Cleveland, LLC. by deed dated February 20th,
1998 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V98017560041, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s
Permanent Parcel Number 002-21-012;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation of said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line
of said parcel of land so conveyed;
Thence southerly, westerly and southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Madison Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Madison Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 85th
Street and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’
Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2266, Sheet No. 1, and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1398

July 9, 2008
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 1003-08.
By Council Members Brady, Pierce
Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the necessity and intention to
appropriate property for the acquisition and redevelopment and/or
rehabilitation of the blighted premises located at 11850 Lorain Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland, by Ordinance No. 1444A-88, passed June 18, 1990, approved
and adopted Chapter 324 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, relating to the elimination of
spot blight; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 50408, passed June 9, 2008, this Council
declared the subject property a
blighted premises and authorized
the Director of Community Development to acquire the blighted premises and to sell the premises to Westown Community Development Corporation, or its designee; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the public purpose of eliminating blight and preventing the recurrence of blight in
the neighborhood surrounding the
blighted premises located at 11850
Lorain Avenue, through the acquisition and redevelopment and/or rehabilitation, it is necessary to appropriate in fee simple the blighted
premises, and the Council declares
its intent to appropriate the fee simple interest in and to the following
described blighted premises:
P. P. No. 021-22-021
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being part of
Sublot No. 50 in West, Smith and
Jordon’s Western Heights Allotment
of part of Original Rockport Township Section No. 11 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 23 of Maps,
Page
20
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Northeasterly line of Lorain Avenue (80 feet wide) with the Northeasterly line of West 119th Street;
thence
Northwesterly
79.65
feet
along the said Northeasterly line of
West 119th Street to a point; thence
Northeasterly 41.71 feet and along
the face of a brick wall to a point
in the Northeasterly line of said
Sublot No. 50 distant Southeasterly
60 feet from the most Northerly corner of said Sublot No. 50; thence
Southeasterly 80 feet along the
Northeasterly line of said Sublot No.
50 to its intersection with the said
Northwesterly line of Lorain Avenue; thence Southwesterly 41.71 feet
along the said Northwesterly line of
Lorain Avenue to the place of beginning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized and directed
to cause written notice of the adoption of this resolution to be given to
the owners and persons in posses-

The City Record
sion or having an interest of record
in
the
above-described
blighted
premises. The notice shall be served
according to law by a person designated for that purpose by the Director of Finance and return shall be
made in the manner provided by
law.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
Res. No. 1073-08.
By Council Members Reed, Brancatelli, Conwell, White, Kelley, Johnson and Zone.
An emergency resolution urging
the
Jackson
Administration
and
Cleveland Metropolitan School District CEO Eugene Sanders to immediately hire an independent consultant to monitor community inclusion
and workforce participation and
contracting and to conduct work site
visits.
Whereas, the Bond Accountability
Commission has been monitoring
Cleveland Metropolitan School District’s construction projects; and
Whereas, this Council believes
that the current method of community inclusion and workforce monitoring is inadequate; and
Whereas, there need to be improvements in giving public notice
of community forums and improved
consistency and quality of presentations at such forums; and
Whereas, the community also must
know and be adequately updated
regarding workforce participation
and contracting; and
Whereas, this Council believes,
and it has been acknowledged by
the District Administration, that an
independent consultant is necessary
to monitor the above issues; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the
Jackson
Administration
and
Cleveland Metropolitan School District CEO Eugene Sanders to immediately hire an independent consultant to monitor community inclusion
and workforce participation and
contracting and to conduct work site
visits.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to Eugene Sanders,
CEO, Cleveland Metropolitan School
District and to the members of the
Bond Accountability Commission.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

1399

23
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Director of Law; Committee on Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 999-08.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Cimperman, Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance No.
1817-07, passed December 3, 2007,
relating to a contract with BEDO,
LLC, or its designee, to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the residential rehabilitation component of the University Lofts project, located at 2010
and 2020 Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 2 and 3 of
Ordinance No. 1817-07, passed December 3, 2007, are amended to read as
follows:
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 1817-07-B, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation, and are
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract shall not exceed Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars ($800,000),
and shall be paid from Fund No. 10
SF 545, which funds are appropriated for this purpose, Request No.
178617.
Section 2. That existing Sections 2
and 3 of Ordinance No. 1817-07,
passed December 3, 2007, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1004-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of pipe-type
cable, and labor and materials to
repair, replace, and maintain existing pipe-type cable, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities.

24
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a one or two-year
period of the necessary items of
pipe-type cable, and labor and materials to repair, replace, and maintain
existing pipe-type cable, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Utilities by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 169177)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1005-08.
By Council Members Kelley, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 139.16 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1406-07,
passed November 12, 2007, relating
to applying and accepting federal
and state grants and other funding.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 139.16 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
1406-07,
passed
November 12, 2007, is amended to
read as follows:
Section 139.16
Applying and Accepting Federal and State Grants
and Other Funding
The Director of Port Control is
authorized to apply for and accept
grants and other funding from the
United States of America and the
State of Ohio, as they become available, to fund projects related to the
operations of the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control.
The Director is further authorized
to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to apply for,
accept and receive grants and
other funding; provided that the
City shall follow all applicable federal or state regulations; and that
any funds are appropriated for the
purposes in the applications for the
grants, applications for other funding, or any amendments thereto.
The Director of Port Control shall
notify this Council, through its
Clerk, of any funds accepted under
the authority of this section, on
receipt of each award.
The Director of Port Control is
further
authorized
to
pay
cash
matching funds for projects approved by the above-named grantors
for grant funding and other funding.
The matching funds shall be paid
from funds appropriated for the use
of the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control and,
when permitted by law and indentures, from any existing or future
revenue bond funds, grant proceeds
and PFC authorizations.
Section 2. That existing Section
139.16 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1406-07, passed
November 12, 2007, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1400

July 9, 2008
Ord. No. 1006-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County for the 2006 Law
Enforcement Terrorism Protection
Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $16,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from Cuyahoga County to conduct
the 2006 Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection (“LETPP”) Program;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the grant agreement and award letter for the grant
contained
in
the
file
described
below.
Section 2. That the grant agreement and award letter for the grant,
File No. 1006-08-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1007-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Ohio Department of Health for the
2008 Regional Medical Response System Program; authorizing the Director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals; and authorizing
the purchase by one or more requirement or standard contracts of materials, equipment, services, and supplies, including training, conducting
exercises, and program planning,
needed to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

July 9, 2008
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $94,230, from Ohio Department of Health to conduct the 2008
Regional Medical Response System
(RMRS) Program; that the Director
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
notice of award for the grant contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the notice of
award for the grant, File No. 100708-A, made a part of this ordinance
as if fully rewritten, as presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written standard purchase contracts and written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant period
of the necessary items of materials,
equipment, services, and supplies,
including training, conducting exercises, and program planning, needed
to implement the grant, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Department of Public Safety. Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 6. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 7. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 8. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized in this
ordinance shall be paid from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance.

The City Record
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1008-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Ohio Department of Public Safety
for the 2006 Buffer Zone Protection
Program; authorizing the purchase
by one or more requirement contracts of materials, equipment, supplies and services; authorizing the
Director to employ one or more professional consultants; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies,
entities,
or
individuals
to
implement the grant, for the Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $179,550, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the Ohio Department of Public
Safety to conduct the 2006 Buffer
Zone Protection Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1008-08-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements during the
grant term of the necessary items of
materials, equipment, supplies and
services, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department
of Public Safety. Bids shall be taken
in a manner that permits an award
to be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for

1401

25
each or any combination of the items
as the Board of Control determines.
Alternate bids for a period less than
the specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire term.
Section 5. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public
Safety
is
authorized
to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
grant as described in the file.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Safety from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Safety for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Safety, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with or
make payments to agencies, entities,
or individuals to implement the
grant as described in the file.
Section 9. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

26

The City Record

July 9, 2008

Ord. No. 1009-08.
By Council Members Lewis and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 13 and 24 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, relating to
compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 13 and 24 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, are amended to read as follows:
Section 13. International Union of Painters and Allied Trades, District 6. That the salaries and compensation
in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Sign Painter ..................................................................................
Sign Painter Unit Leader ........................................................
Spray Painter ...............................................................................
Traffic Sign and Marking Supervisor ................................
Traffic Sign Process Operator ...............................................

Minimum
$23.23
$24.23
$20.83
$13.28
$13.28

Maximum
$31.04
$33.43
$28.69
$24.33
$24.36

Section 24. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39. That the salaries and the
compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the
schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.

Apprentice Cable Splicer..........................................................
Apprentice Lineman ...................................................................
Cable Foreman .............................................................................
Cable Splicer .................................................................................
Cable Splicer Helper..................................................................
Cable Splicer I .............................................................................
Cable Splicer II ...........................................................................
Dispatcher Electric System Operator ..................................
Electric Meter Industrial Installer ......................................
Electric Meter Instrument Specialist and
General Tester .........................................................................
Electric Meter Service Foremen............................................
Electric Meter Service Installer I ........................................
Electric Meter Service Installer II ......................................
Electric Meterman Apprentice ...............................................
Electric Motor and Transformer Repairman ...................
Electric Switchboard Operator Foreman ...........................
Electric Transmission and Distribution
Inspector .....................................................................................
Foreman Low Tension ..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic ..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic Apprentice .......................................
Junior Electric Switchboard Operator ................................
Line Clearance Man ...................................................................
Line Foreman ...............................................................................
Line Helper Driver.....................................................................
Line Switchman ...........................................................................
Leader Lineman Low-Tension ................................................
Lineman ..........................................................................................
Lineman Leader...........................................................................
Low Tension Lineman ..............................................................
Low Tension Lineman Apprentice .......................................
Low Tension Trouble Lineman .............................................
Police Division Trouble Lineman.........................................
Safety Signal Trouble Lineman ............................................
Senior Cable Splicer...................................................................
Senior Electric Switchboard Operator.................................
Senior Lineman ............................................................................
Signal System Powerman ........................................................
Telecommunications Technician ...........................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician .......................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician 2 ...................................
Transformer Repairman Foreman........................................
Trouble Lineman.........................................................................
Underground Conduit Foreman .............................................

Minimum
$22.22
$22.39
$31.45
$17.46
$20.44
$28.15
$17.14
$26.52
$28.05

Maximum
$24.40
$24.58
$32.60
$27.32
$23.76
$29.24
$26.81
$28.34
$29.13

$28.37
$31.45
$26.12
$24.35
$21.91
$17.38
$31.45

$29.45
$32.60
$27.69
$25.35
$24.04
$27.16
$32.60

$28.15
$30.91
$17.38
$22.22
$22.36
$22.00
$31.45
$17.73
$30.16
$29.99
$28.15
$26.27
$29.99
$21.95
$29.40
$19.19
$19.19
$29.65
$24.63
$29.65
$19.54
$29.40
$31.11
$30.60
$31.45
$29.65
$31.45

$29.76
$32.04
$27.68
$24.40
$23.33
$24.24
$32.60
$23.77
$32.05
$31.11
$29.24
$27.31
$31.11
$23.72
$30.50
$29.96
$29.96
$30.76
$25.65
$30.76
$30.51
$30.50
$32.25
$31.73
$32.60
$31.78
$32.60

Section 2. That existing Sections 13 and 24 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1402

July 9, 2008
Ord. No. 1010-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Visual Evidence/E-Discovery LLC to provide
for the removal of the Council computer server, forensic imaging of
five specific personal computer drives, indexing of data recovered
therefrom and organizing such data
in an accessible format for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Visual Evidence/EDiscovery LLC to provide for the
removal of the Council computer
server, forensic imaging of five specific
personal
computer
drives,
indexing of data recovered therefrom and organizing such data in an
accessible format for Cleveland City
Council. This agreement shall be
entered into as of May 10, 2008 and
shall terminate upon completion of
the project. The agreement shall be
certified for $25,000.00 and from
fund numbers 632000-01-010100.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1022-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing a Cooperative Agreement relating to the Series A Bonds; accepting a completion guaranty; and
authorizing and approving related
matters.
Whereas, Ohio Revised Code Sections 5709.40, 5709.42 and 5709.43
(collectively, the “Act”) provide that
the Council of the City may describe
public improvements to be made
that directly benefit certain parcels
of real property, declare improvements with respect to such parcels
located in the City to be a public
purpose, thereby authorizing the
exemption of those improvements
from real property taxation for a
period of time, and provide for the
making of service payments in lieu
of taxes by the owner of such
parcels; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1645-05 passed by the Council of
the City on October 31, 2005 (the
“TIF Ordinance”), this Council designated improvements to certain
parcels in the City described therein (the “TIF Area”) to be a public
purpose under the Act; and

The City Record
Whereas, pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Sections 4582.01 through
4582.20, the City has requested the
assistance of the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (the
“Port Authority”) in financing costs
of certain public improvements; and
Whereas, the City intends to enter
into a Cooperative Agreement (the
“Series A Cooperative Agreement”)
with the Port Authority, the Flats
East Development LLC (the “Developer”), FED/Main Street LLC, The
Flats East New Community Development Authority and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A. (the “Trustee”) to provide for,
among other things, (i) the issuance
of bonds (the “Series A Bonds”) by
the Port Authority in an estimated
amount not to exceed $150,000,000 to
pay costs of the acquisition, construction and installation of certain
public street, utility and parking
improvements described in the Cooperative Agreement (the “Public Improvements”), (ii) the payment of
service payments in lieu of taxes
(the “Service Payments”) by the
Developer and FED/Main Street
LLC pursuant to the TIF Ordinance,
(iii) disbursement of the proceeds of
the Series A Bonds for the acquisition and construction of the Public
Improvements and (iv) the transfer
of the Service Payments by the City
to the Trustee to pay principal and
interest and other costs relating to
the Series A Bonds; and
Whereas, to provide for the security for the Series A Bonds and
related matters, the City intends to
enter into an Agreement with the
Cuyahoga County Treasurer (the
“Tax Lien Agreement”), and to
accept one or more completion guaranties from the Developer (the
“Completion Guaranty”); and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that approving the
Series A Cooperative Agreement is
necessary to finance the Public
Improvements and to provide for
needed public improvements and
eliminate blighted conditions and
prevent the recurrence of blight;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1.
Determinations by
Council.
This Council finds and
determines as follows:
(a)
Public Purpose.
The acquisition, construction and installation
of the Public Improvements and the
use of Service Payments to provide
for debt service on the Series A
Bonds serves a proper public municipal purpose and is necessary to
provide for needed public streets
and parking that will improve the
flow of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic in the TIF Area, to eliminate
blighted conditions and prevent the
recurrence of blight in the TIF Area
and for the development of the private improvements described in the
Series A Cooperative Agreement.
(b) Cooperative Agreement. It is
necessary, proper and in the best
interest of the City to authorize the
Series A Cooperative Agreement to
provide for, among other things, (i)

1403

27
the issuance of the Series A Bonds
by the Port Authority, which may
bear interest at a fixed or variable
rate as determined by the Port
Authority and consistent with the
Series A Cooperative Agreement, to
pay costs of the acquisition, construction and installation of the
Public Improvements, (ii) the payment of Service Payments in lieu of
taxes
by
the
Developer
and
FED/Main Street LLC pursuant to
the TIF Ordinance, (iv) disbursement of the proceeds of the Series
A Bonds for the acquisition and construction of the Public Improvements and (v) the transfer of the
Service Payments by the City to the
Trustee to pay principal and interest and other costs relating to the
Series A Bonds.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Series A
Bonds and the signing and delivery
of the Series A Cooperative Agreement
in
connection
with
such
issuance for the purpose provided in
this Ordinance serves a proper, public, municipal purpose.
Section 2. Authorization of Series
A Cooperative Agreement; Tax Lien
Agreement and Additional Documents. In connection with the issuance of the Series A Bonds, either
the Director of Economic Development or the Director of Finance is
authorized, in the name and on
behalf of the City, to sign and deliver the Series A Cooperative Agreement, approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, in
the form in File No. 1022-08-A,
together with such changes that are
not adverse to the City as may be
approved by the officers signing the
same on behalf of the City. The
determination by those officers that
the Series A Cooperative Agreement
is not adverse to the City shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery of that Series A
Cooperative Agreement by those
officers.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Clerk, the Director of
Law and other City officials are
authorized to sign and deliver and
accept delivery of such instruments,
certificates and documents as are
necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance and the Series A
Cooperative Agreement. The Mayor,
the Director of Economic Development, the Director of Finance, or
any other City officials, as appropriate, are further authorized to
sign and deliver a Tax Lien Agreement with the Cuyahoga County
Treasurer in furtherance of the
transactions.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate,
are authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the
City and cooperate with the Port
Authority to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for
the delivery of the Series A Bonds
to the Original Purchasers and to
take all actions necessary to effect
due
signing,
authentication
and
delivery of the Series A Bonds under
the terms of this Ordinance and the
Series A Cooperative Agreement.

28
The Clerk of Council or other appropriate official of the City shall furnish the Original Purchasers a true
transcript of proceedings certified
by the Clerk or other official, of all
proceedings had with reference to
the TIF Ordinance and the authorization of the Series A Cooperative
Agreement.
Section 3.
Completion Guaranty.
This Council hereby approves the
acceptance of a Completion Guaranty from the Developer. The Director
of Finance is authorized to sign a
Completion Guaranty on behalf of
the City in form and substance
approved by the Director of Law as
being consistent with the objectives
and requirements of this Ordinance,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Completion Guaranty.
Section 4. Interpretation. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of
the City which are inconsistent with
the provisions of this Ordinance
shall not apply to the Series A
Bonds or matters authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall
be applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding
bonds,
certificates
of
indebtedness,
other
obligations,
indentures, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City.
Section 5.
Validity.
It is found
and determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that all applicable provisions of the City’s Charter
and the rules of this Council have
been fully complied with and this
Ordinance was passed in conformity
therewith.
Section 6. Severability. Each section of this Ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section
is hereby declared to be independent, and the finding or holding of
any section or any subdivision or
paragraph of any section to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed
or held to affect the validity of any
other section, subdivision or paragraph of this Ordinance.
Section 7. Compliance with Open
Meeting Law.
It is hereby found
and determined that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken in an open
meeting of this Council, and that all
deliberations of this Council and of
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, in compliance with all applicable legal
requirements.
Section 8. Emergency. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all the members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its adoption and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1023-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing a Cooperative Agreement relating to the Series B Bonds; approving terms of the Series B Bonds;
accepting a completion guaranty;
and authorizing and approving related matters.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 656-06 passed by the Council of
the City on April 24, 2006, this Council
authorized
the
Director
of
Finance to pay the debt service on
not to exceed $11,000,000 of obligations issued by the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (“Port
Authority”), subject to annual appropriation, for the purpose of constructing various public improvements within the Flats East Bank
Community Plan area, as described
in Ordinance No. 1644-05, passed
October
17,
2005,
including
the
authority to execute a cooperative
agreement and all other documents
necessary to pay the debt service,
provided the City does not issue the
obligations and provided the City
enters into a Development Agreement with the Port Authority and
Flats East Development LLC; and
Whereas,
the
City,
the
Port
Authority and Flats East Development LLC have entered into a Project Development Agreement dated
May 22, 2006, as amended (the
“Development Agreement”); and
Whereas, the City has requested
that the Port Authority issue bonds
(“Series A Bonds”) in order to provide for the acquisition, construction
and installation of certain public
infrastructure and parking improvements by the Port Authority (“Public Improvements”) under the terms
of a Cooperative Agreement to be
entered into among the City, the
Port Authority, Flats East Development LLC, FED/Main Street LLC,
The Flats East New Community
Development Authority and The
Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as trustee for the
Series A Bonds; and
Whereas, the City has requested
that the Port Authority also issue
bonds in the aggregate principal
amount of not to exceed $11,000,000
(“Series B Bonds”) in order to
finance the acquisition of certain
real property (“Property”) to be
acquired by the City and to be used
as public streets, upon which Property a portion of the Public Improvements shall be constructed (the
“Series B Project”) under the terms
of a Cooperative Agreement to be
entered into among the City, the
Port Authority, Flats East Development LLC and The Bank of New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.,
as trustee (“Series B Cooperative
Agreement”); and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the payment of
debt service on the Series B Bonds,
subject to annual appropriation, in
accordance with the terms of the
Series B Cooperative Agreement and
as provided in this Ordinance, and to
authorize the signing of the Series B
Cooperative Agreement; and
Whereas, the City intends to accept one or more completion guaranties from the Developer (the
“Completion Guaranty”) guarantying
completion
of
the
Public
Improvements; and

1404

July 9, 2008
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that approving the
Series B Cooperative Agreement is
necessary to finance the Series B
Project to provide for needed City
streets that will improve the flow of
traffic and eliminate blighted conditions and prevent the recurrence
of blight in the Flats East Bank
Community Plan area; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1.
Definitions.
In addition to the words and terms defined
in the Series B Cooperative Agreement, the following words and terms
shall have the following meanings
unless the context or use clearly
indicates another or different meaning or intent:
“Appropriation Payments” means
the payment to be made by the City
pursuant to, and in accordance with
the schedule attached to, the Series
B Cooperative Agreement, which
payments are subject to annual
appropriation by this Council.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby securities purchase
agreement or other credit enhancement, support or liquidity device
used to enhance the security or
liquidity of any Series B Bonds.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance
of the City, from time to time, pursuant to Section 8 of this Ordinance.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to the Series B Bonds, the
financial institutions identified as
such in the Bond Purchase Agreement.
“Bond Purchase Agreement” means,
with respect to the Series B Bonds,
the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
among the City, the Port Authority,
the Trustee and the Original Purchasers for the Series B Bonds or a
representative of those Original Purchasers.
“Purchase
Price”
means,
with
respect to the Series B Bonds, the
amount specified in the Bond Purchase Agreement to be paid by the
Original Purchasers for the purchase of the Series B Bonds, provided that amount shall be not less
than (i) 97% of the amount determined by adding to the aggregate
principal amount of the Series B
Bonds any aggregate original issue
premium and subtracting from that
amount
any
aggregate
original
issue discount and any premium or
other costs of any Credit Support
Instrument purchased from the proceeds of the Series B Bonds, plus
(ii) any accrued interest on the
Series B Bonds from their date to
the date of their delivery to the
Original Purchasers.
“Series B Trust Indenture” means
the Trust Indenture between the
Port Authority and the Trustee providing for the issuance of the Series
B Bonds.
“Trustee” means The Bank of New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
Section 2. Determinations by Council.
This Council finds and determines as follows:

July 9, 2008
(a)
Public Purpose.
The acquisition of real property to be used for
public streets in the Flats East Community Plan area serves a proper
public municipal purpose.
(b) Cooperative Agreement. It is
necessary, proper and in the best
interest of the City to authorize the
Series B Cooperative Agreement to
provide for, among other things, (i)
the issuance of the Series B Bonds
by the Port Authority to pay costs
of the Series B Project, (ii) the provision of semi-annual or annual
Appropriation Payments to pay debt
service on the Series B Bonds, (iii)
disbursement of the proceeds of the
Series B Bonds for the acquisition of
the Property and (iv) the terms and
conditions of the purchase and
acquisition of the Property.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Series B
Bonds and the signing and delivery
of the Series B Cooperative Agreement
in
connection
with
such
issuance for the purpose provided in
this Ordinance serves a proper, public, municipal purpose.
Section 3. Determination of Bond
Terms; Application of Proceeds.
(a)
Principal Components and
Term.
Upon the determination of
the Director of Finance, which may
be based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that it is to the
financial advantage of the City and
in the City’s best interests, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
cooperate with the Port Authority to
negotiate and provide for the terms
of the Series B Bonds and the Appropriation Payments, which Appropriation Payments shall be equal to the
debt service on the Series B Bonds.
The principal amount of the Series
B Bonds and the corresponding principal component of Appropriation
Payments shall be equal to the principal amount specified in a certificate providing for the final terms of
the Series B Bonds and signed by
the Director of Finance (the “Final
Terms Certificate”), which shall not
exceed $11,000,000, and shall be used
(i) to pay the costs of the Series B
Project, which include the acquisition of the Property, (ii) to pay
costs of any Credit Support Instruments, and (iii) to pay costs of issuing the Series B Bonds. The Series
B Bonds shall mature on the dates
beginning no later than December 1,
2010 and no earlier than December
1, 2008 and ending no less than 20
years and no more than 27 years
thereafter and shall mature in annual or semi-annual installments in the
principal amounts (either by principal maturity date or mandatory
redemption date) such that the total
principal and interest payments due
on the Series B Bonds in any fiscal
year (a) in which principal is
payable and there are two semiannual interest payments (if principal is payable annually) or (b) in
which there are two semi-annual
principal and interest payments (if
principal is payable semi-annually),
in either case is not more than three
times the amount of those payments
in any other fiscal year, all as to be
set forth in the Final Terms Certificate and the Bond Purchase
Agreement, and to be consistent
with this Ordinance, the Series B
Cooperative
Agreement
and
the
Series B Trust Indenture.

The City Record
(b) Interest. The Series B Bonds
shall be issued as obligations bearing interest at a fixed rate or rates
not to exceed 7.0% with respect to
any maturity, based on the determination of the Director of Finance as
to the financial advantage to, and
best interests of, the City, as specified in the Final Terms Certificate.
(c)
Credit Support Instruments.
The Director of Finance is authorized to approve one or more Credit
Support Instruments, if the Director
of Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that the Credit Support Instruments will result in a savings in the
cost of the financing to the City,
which determination shall be specified in the Bond Purchase Agreement. The costs of such Credit Support Instruments shall be paid from
proceeds of the Series B Bonds or
from other money lawfully available
and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose, as determined
by the Director of Finance.
(d) Appropriation Payments. The
Appropriation Payments to be payable under and in accordance with
the Cooperative Agreement during
any fiscal year shall be an amount
sufficient to cover the semi-annual
or annual amount of principal of,
and interest on, the Series B Bonds
that are due and payable during
that fiscal year, and such Appropriation Payments shall be specified in
an exhibit to the Series B Cooperative Agreement; provided, however,
that the City’s payment of Appropriation Payments is subject to
appropriation as provided in the
Series B Cooperative Agreement and
nothing in the Series B Cooperative
Agreement, the Series B Bonds or
the Series B Trust Indenture constitutes or shall constitute a pledge by
the City, or an obligation of the
City, of any taxes or other moneys
to the payments due thereunder.
(e)
Optional Redemption.
The
Series B Bonds may be subject to
optional redemption by the Port
Authority, solely at the direction of
the Director of Finance upon her
determination that it is to the financial advantage of the City and in
the City’s best interests.
(f) Primary Offering Disclosure.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance after consultation with
the Port Authority and the Original
Purchasers, a disclosure document is
appropriate relating to the initial
offering of the Series B Bonds, the
Director of Finance, on behalf of the
City and in that officer’s official
capacity, is authorized to (i) cooperate with the Port Authority and
the Original Purchasers in the
preparation of, and the making of
modifications,
completions
or
changes of or supplements to, such
a disclosure document, (ii) determine, and certify or otherwise represent when the disclosure document is to be deemed final or is
final, (iii) authorize the use and distribution of that disclosure document and any supplements thereto
in connection with the initial offering of the Series B Bonds, and (iv)
sign certificates, statements or other
documents in connection with the
finality, accuracy and completeness
of that disclosure document.
(g)
Continuing Disclosure.
If
and to the extent required by Rule
15c2-12 (the “Rule”) promulgated by

1405

29
the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in connection with
the sale of the Series B Bonds, the
Director of Finance shall enter into
a continuing disclosure agreement
on behalf of the City, approved as
to form and correctness by the
Director of Law, among the City, the
Port Authority and the Trustee,
with terms not inconsistent with
this Ordinance and as may be
approved by the Director of Finance
signing that agreement on behalf of
the City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by that signing.
In each such continuing disclosure
agreement, the City shall agree to
provide, or cause to be provided, to
each nationally recognized municipal securities information repository
designated by the SEC from time to
time in accordance with that Rule,
and to any state information depository, the annual financial information and operating data and notices
of specified events required by that
Rule, as more particularly described
in the continuing disclosure agreement. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver each
continuing
disclosure
agreement
and any related agreements, certificates and other instruments, and to
deliver such information, as may be
necessary or appropriate to comply
with the requirements of the Rule.
The City understands and agrees
that those commitments are intended to be for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Series
B Bonds, including holders of bookentry interests in those Series B
Bonds.
(h) Application for Ratings. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance, the filing of applications
for one or more ratings on the Series
B Bonds by one or more nationallyrecognized rating agencies is necessary or desirable for marketing purposes, the Director of Finance is
authorized to cooperate with the
Port Authority to provide information as may be required in support
of applications for that purpose. The
cost of obtaining each such rating,
except to the extent paid by the
Original Purchasers in accordance
with the Bond Purchase Agreement,
shall be paid from the proceeds of
the Series B Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money made available by the Port
Authority.
(i) Application of Proceeds. The
proceeds from the sale of the Series
B Bonds shall be deposited and
applied as provided in the Series B
Cooperative
Agreement
and
the
Series B Trust Indenture and for the
purposes stated in this Ordinance.
Section 4.
Sale of the Series B
Bonds; Bond Purchase Agreement.
The Director of Finance shall sign
and deliver the Final Terms Certificate referred to herein and a Bond
Purchase Agreement for Series B
Bonds on a date she deems appropriate setting forth the conditions for
delivery of the Series B Bonds that
are consistent with this Ordinance,
the Series B Cooperative Agreement
and the Series B Trust Indenture that
are determined by the Director of
Finance, which may be based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, to be customary for bonds that
are subject to appropriation issued by
governmental
entities,
including,
without limitation, representations as

30
to the accuracy and completeness of
information contained in the disclosure document described in Section 3
of this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement shall provide for the sale
of the Series B Bonds to the Original
Purchasers selected by the Port
Authority and approved by the Director of Finance and identified in the
Bond Purchase Agreement, based on
an evaluation of the qualifications of
firms that have proposed to underwrite the Series B Bonds.
In addition to the terms required
to be set forth in the Bond Purchase
Agreement in Section 3 hereof, the
Bond Purchase Agreement shall set
forth the following, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, consistent with this ordinance:
(a) the Purchase Price for the
Series B Bonds;
(b) whether any Series B Bonds
are to be subject to optional redemption prior to maturity, and, if
so, the earliest optional redemption
date for those Series B Bonds subject to prior redemption, which shall
be not later than ten years from the
first interest payment date of the
applicable series, and the applicable
redemption price, which shall be not
greater than 102% of the principal
amount redeemed;
(c) the title and series designation for the Series B Bonds;
(d) whether any Series B Bonds
are to be secured by or payable from
a Credit Support Instrument.
It is determined that the terms of
the Series B Bonds and the corresponding terms of Appropriation
Payments as so determined within
the limitations set forth in this Ordinance and as so specified and set
forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement will be in the best interest of
the City and consistent with all
legal requirements.
Section 5. Authorization of Series
B Cooperative Agreement; Additional Documents.
In connection with
the issuance of the Series B Bonds,
the Director of Economic Development and the Director of Finance
are authorized, in the name and on
behalf of the City, and on a date
those officers deem appropriate to
sign and deliver the Series B Cooperative Agreement, approved as to
form and correctness by the Director of Law, in the form in File
No. 1023-08-A, together with such
changes that are not adverse to the
City as may be approved by the officers signing the same on behalf of
the City. The determination by those
officers that the Series B Cooperative Agreement is not adverse to the
City shall be conclusively evidenced
by the signing and delivery of that
Series B Cooperative Agreement by
those officers.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Clerk, the Director of
Law and other City officials are
authorized to sign and deliver and
accept delivery of such instruments,
certificates and documents as are
necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance, the Series B Cooperative Agreement and the Bond Purchase Agreement.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate,
are authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the
City and cooperate with the Port

The City Record
Authority to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for
the delivery of the Series B Bonds
to the Original Purchasers and to
take all actions necessary to effect
due
signing,
authentication
and
delivery of the Series B Bonds under
the terms of this Ordinance, the
Series B Cooperative Agreement and
the Bond Purchase Agreement. The
Clerk of Council or other appropriate official of the City shall furnish
the Original Purchasers a true transcript of proceedings certified by
the Clerk or other official, of all proceedings had with reference to the
authorization of the Series B Cooperative Agreement and the payment
of debt service on the Series B
Bonds.
Section 6. Authorization. Notwithstanding and as an exception to the
provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to purchase the Property generally described in the Series B
Cooperative Agreement in the above
mentioned file, and as further described in a legal description to be
approved by the Director of Public
Services at the time the Property is
conveyed.
Section 7.
Fair Market Value.
The consideration to be paid for the
Property shall not exceed fair market value as described in the Series
B Cooperative Agreement.
Section 8.
Completion Guaranty.
This Council hereby approves the
acceptance of a Completion Guaranty from the Developer. The Director
of Finance is authorized to sign a
Completion Guaranty on behalf of
the City in form and substance
approved by the Director of Law as
being consistent with the objectives
and requirements of this Ordinance,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Completion Guaranty.
Section 9.
Tax Covenants.
The
Director of Finance, as the fiscal
officer is, alone or in conjunction
with any other officer or employee
of the City, authorized (a) to cooperate with the Original Purchasers
and the Trustee by making, on
behalf of the City, such covenants
and representations in the Cooperative Agreement as are appropriate
and necessary so that (a) the Series
B Bonds will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds
or hedge bonds under Sections 141,
148 or 149 of the Code or (ii) be
treated other than as obligations to
which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, and (b) the interest on the
Series B Bonds will not be treated
as an item of tax preference under
Section 57 of the Code. The City
hereby covenants it will take or
cause to be taken such actions that
may be required of it for the interest on the Series B Bonds to be and
remain excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes and
that it will not take or authorize to
be taken any actions that would
adversely affect that exclusion.
Section 10.
Financial Advisor.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more Financial Advisors, from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
may rely on the written advice of

1406

July 9, 2008
any Financial Advisor so retained.
Any Financial Advisor or consultant
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent
of the underwriters or counterparties and any other party interested
in the transaction.
Section 11.
Interpretation.
Any
provisions of the Codified Ordinances of the City which are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance shall not apply to the
Series B Bonds or matters authorized herein. Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any
manner as would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with
respect to any outstanding bonds,
certificates of indebtedness, other
obligations,
indentures,
or
other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City.
Section 12. Validity. It is found
and determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that all applicable provisions of the City’s Charter
and the rules of this Council have
been fully complied with and this
Ordinance was passed in conformity
therewith.
Section 13.
Severability.
Each
section of this Ordinance and each
subdivision or paragraph of any section is hereby declared to be independent, and the finding or holding
of any section or any subdivision or
paragraph of any section to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed
or held to affect the validity of any
other section, subdivision or paragraph of this Ordinance.
Section 14. Compliance with Open
Meeting Law.
It is hereby found
and determined that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken in an open
meeting of this Council, and that all
deliberations of this Council and of
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, in compliance with all applicable legal
requirements.
Section 15.
Sunset of Authorization. The authority granted by this
Ordinance shall expire one year from
the effective date of this Ordinance.
If a preliminary disclosure document
with respect to the issuance of the
Series B Bonds is distributed under
the authority of this Ordinance at any
time within the one-year period following its effective date, then the
authority granted by this Ordinance
shall not expire as to the Series B
Bonds. The Director of Finance shall
notify the Chairman of the Finance
Committee and the Clerk of this Council of the initiation of the issuance of
the Series B Bonds pursuant to the
authority of this Ordinance.
Section 16. Emergency. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all the members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its adoption and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

July 9, 2008
Ord. No. 1024-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
a finding that the proposed new
community district to be governed
by The Flats East New Community
Development Authority will be conducive to the public health, safety,
convenience, and welfare, and is
intended to result in the development of a new community; to declare The Flats East New Community Development Authority to be
organized and a body politic and
corporate; to designate the name of
the new community authority; to
define the boundary of the new community
district;
to
provide
the
method of selecting the board of
trustees of the new community
authority; to appoint the three members of the board of trustees to be
appointed by the City as citizen
members and the one member of the
board of trustees to be appointed by
the City as the representative of
local government; to fix the surety
for the trustees’ bonds; and to declare an emergency.
Whereas, pursuant to Chapter 349
of the Ohio Revised Code, a petition
(the “Petition”) for the establishment of The Flats East New Community Development Authority to
govern The Flats East New Community Development District (the
“District”) was submitted to the
Cleveland City Council on or about
May 2, 2008; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 650-08 enacted by the Cleveland
City Council on May 5, 2008, the
Cleveland City Council authorized
the execution of the petition by the
City of Cleveland and directed the
same to be filed in the office of the
Clerk
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Board of Commissioners; and
Whereas, the Petition was filed in
the office of the clerk of the Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners on May 6, 2008, as required by
Chapter 349 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, the “organizational board
of commissioners,” as that term is
defined in Section 349.01(F) of the
Ohio Revised Code, for the proposed
Flats East New Community Development Authority is comprised solely of the Cleveland City Council; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
enacted Ordinance No. 769-08 on May
12, 2008, which ordinance determined
that the Petition complies with the
requirements of Chapter 349.03(A)
of the Ohio Revised Code and fixed
the time and place for a hearing on
the establishment of the Flats East
New Community Development Authority; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
349.03(A) of the Ohio Revised Code,
the Cleveland City Council, as the
organizational board of commissioners, held a public hearing on the
Petition on June 9, 2008 after public
notice was duly published in accordance with Section 349.03 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, an emergency exists in
that the formation of The Flats East
New Community Development Authority must occur immediately in order
to comply with the conditions set
forth in Chapter 349 of the Ohio
Revised Code and to facilitate the
development of that portion of the
City comprising the District, said
immediate action being in the interest of the City in order to preserve,
enhance and protect public health,

The City Record
peace, property and safety; now
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That City Council finds
and determines that the District will
be conducive to the public health,
safety, convenience and welfare,
and is intended to result in the
development of a new community as
defined in Section 349.01(A) of the
Ohio Revised Code.
Section 2. That the Petition is
hereby accepted and shall be recorded, along with this ordinance, in the
journal of the Cleveland City Council, as the organizational board of
commissioners, and in the journal of
the Board of County Commissioners
of Cuyahoga County, pursuant to
Section
349.03(A)
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code.
Section 3. That The Flats East
New Community Development Authority is hereby organized as a body
politic and corporate.
Section 4. That the corporate name
of The Flats East New Community
Development Authority shall be “The
Flats East New Community Development Authority”.
Section 5. That The Flats East
New Community Development District shall be defined to have the
boundary set forth in the Petition.
Section 6. That the Board of
Trustees of The Flats East New
Community Development Authority
shall be composed of seven members
selected as provided in the Petition.
Section 7. That the City appoints
the following four members to serve
on the Board of Trustees of The
Flats East New Community Development Authority, each in the position and for the term indicated
beside such member’s respective
name:
Nate Coffman
Citizen Member — 2 year term
Deb Janik
Citizen Member — 1 year term
Vickie Eaton Johnson
Citizen Member — 1 year term
Tracey Nichols
Local Government Representative
2 year term
Section 8. That Flats East Development LLC and FED/Main Street
LLC (the “Developers”) shall appoint the remaining three members
to serve on the Board of Trustees of
The Flats East New Community
Development Authority as representatives of the Developers, and shall
designate one of those members to
serve an initial two year term.
Those appointments and designations shall be in writing filed with
the City Clerk and Director of Law
within ten days after the passage of
this Ordinance.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 349.04 of the Ohio Revised Code,
there shall be posted for each member of the Board of Trustees of The
Flats East New Community Development Authority a bond in the
amount of $10,000 for the faithful
performance of his or her duties.
The bond shall be with a company
authorized to conduct business within the State of Ohio as a surety and
shall be deposited with and preserved by the City Clerk.
Section 10. That the Director of
Economic Development and other
appropriate officers of the City are
hereby authorized and directed to
take
such
actions,
make
such

1407

31
arrangements and enter into agreements that are consistent with the
purpose of this Ordinance and necessary and proper for the establishment, operation and future growth
of The Flats East New Community
Development Authority, including
executing any supplements to the
Declaration of Covenants, Restrictions and Agreements for The Flats
East New Community Development
Authority necessary to add property
to the territory covered by that Declaration.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1025-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone, Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 655-06,
passed April 24, 2006, relating to
authorizing the City to pay a portion of the costs of various utility
and
infrastructure
improvements
within the Flats East Bank Community Plan Area.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 655-06, passed April 24,
2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That, provided the City
enters into a Development Agreement with the Port Authority and
Flats East Development LLC, this
Council authorizes the contribution
by the City of labor, materials or
funds for the utility and infrastructure improvements described in Section 1 above and in any amendments
to the Development Agreement in
the estimated amounts of $740,000
from the Division of Water (Fund
No. 52 SF 001), $5,500,000 from the
Division of Cleveland Public Power
(Fund Nos. 58 SF 001 and 58 SF 230),
and $1,000,000 from the Department
of Public Service (Fund Nos. 20 SF
363, 20 SF 372, 20 SF 379, 20 SF 393,
and 20 SF 505), Request No. 146268.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 655-06, passed April
24, 2006, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

32
Ord. No. 1026-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady, Pierce Scott and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire certain
parcels of land located on the East
Bank of the Flats for future redevelopment of the Flats, for the
Department of Community Development; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
convey a portion of the properties to
the Flats East Development LLC
and the State of Ohio, which is not
needed for public use.
Whereas, the Director of Public
Service has requested the purchase
of properties from the County of
Cuyahoga located on the East Bank
of the Flats which are needed for
the future redevelopment of the
Flats; and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Service has requested the sale of a
portion of the properties, which are
not needed for public use, to the
Flats East Development LLC (the
“Redeveloper”) for the public purpose of future redevelopment of the
Flats; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire title to the following described properties for future redevelopment of the Flats:
0.0963 ACRE (4,197 SQUARE FEET)
PARCEL “A”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 194 and
195, and also being further bounded
and described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the centerline intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and Old River Road, 66
feet wide, of which said monument
bears North 71° 42' 36" West, 262.84
feet from a 5/8 inch iron pin monument found at an angle point in the
centerline of aforementioned Old
River Road; thence South 71° 42' 36"
East along the center line of Old
River Road, a distance of 99.66 feet
to a point therein; thence South 18°
17' 24" West, a distance of 33.00 feet
to a point on the southerly line of
said Old River Road, the northeasterly corner of land now or formerly owned by Flats East Development, LLC, Permanent Parcel
Number 101-13-036, as recorded by
AFN
200804290435
of
Cuyahoga
County Deed Records, and the northwesterly corner of land now or formerly owned by the Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners,
Permanent Parcel Number 101-13028; thence South 30°29’l8” West
along the easterly line of said Flats
East Development, LLC, and along
the westerly line of said Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners, a
distance of 33.79 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”
said point also being the TRUE
POINT Of BEGINNING for the area
of land hereinafter described, thence
clockwise along the following four
courses and distances;

The City Record
1. Thence South 59° 25' 57" East,
a distance of 104.04 feet to a mag
nail to be set on the westerly line
of land now or formerly owned
by Telecom Acquisition Corp. I,
Inc., Permanent Parcel Number
101-13-027,
as recorded by AFN
200509301253 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records, and the easterly line
of aforementioned Cuyahoga County
Board of Commissioners;
2. Thence South 27° 59' 34" West
along the westerly line of said Telecom Acquisition Corp. I, Inc. and the
easterly line of said Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, a distance of 40.04 feet to a mag nail to
be set;
3. Thence North 59° 25' 57" West,
a distance of 105.79 feet to a 5/8
inch iron pin to be set with cap,
“GPD”; on the aforementioned easterly line of said Flats East Development, ftC, and said westerly line
of Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners;
4. Thence North 30° 29' 18" East
along said easterly and westerly
lines, a distance of 40.00 feet to the
True point of Beginning, and containing 0.0963 acre (4,197 Square
Feet) of land, more or less, and subject to all easements, restrictions,
and covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovier, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD 83
2,184 SQUARE FOOT (0.0501 ACRE)
PARCEL “B”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Number 194, and
also being further bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the center
line intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and Old River Road, 66
feet wide, of which said monument
bears South 55° 38' 38" West, 404.06
feet from a one inch iron pin monument found at the center line intersection
of
aforementioned
Main
Avenue and the traveled roadway of
West 10th Street; thence North 55°
38' 38" East along the center line of
said Main Avenue, a distance of
286.00 feet to a point therein; thence
South 34° 21' 22" East, a distance of
20.00 feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin to
be set with cap, “GPD” on the
southerly line of said Main Avenue,
and the northerly line of land now
or formerly owned by the Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners,
Permanent Parcel Number 101-13-029;
said point also being the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING for the area
of land hereinafter described, thence
clockwise along the following four
courses and distances:
1. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East
along the southerly line of said
Main Avenue, and along the northerly line of said Cuyahoga County
Board of Commissioners, a distance
of 34.92 feet to a Mag Nail to be set
therein;

1408

July 9, 2008
2. Thence South 47° 31' 43" East,
a distance of 60.27 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”,
at an angle point;
3. Thence South 42° 28' 17" West,
a distance of 34.00 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”,
at an angle point;
4. Thence North 47° 31' 43" West,
a distance of 68.23 feet to the True
Point of Beginning, and containing
0.0501 acre (2,184 Square Feet) of
land, more or less, and subject to all
easements,
restrictions,
and
covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD83
0.2238 ACRE (9,747 SQUARE FEET)
PARCEL “C”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 194 and
195, and also being further bounded
and described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the centerline intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and Old River Road, 66
feet wide, of which said monument
bears South 55° 38' 38" West, 404.06
feet from a one inch iron pin monument found at the centerline intersection
of
aforementioned
Main
Avenue, and traveled roadway of
West 10th Street; thence North 55°
38' 38" East along the center line of
said Main Avenue, a distance of
286.00 feet to a point therein; thence
South 34° 21' 22" East, a distance of
20.00 feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin to
be set with cap, “GPD” on the
southerly line of said Main Avenue,
and the northerly line of land now
or formerly owned by the Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners,
Permanent Parcel Number 101-13-029;
said point also being the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING for the area
of land hereinafter described, thence
clockwise along the following ten
courses and distances:
1. Thence South 47° 31' 43" East,
a distance of 41.08 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”,
at an angle point;
2. Thence South 55° 38' 38" West,
a distance of 145.18 feet to a 5/8
inch iron pin to be set with cap,
“GPD” at a point of curve;
3. Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right and having a
radius of 73.50 feet, a central angle
of 25° 36' 06", a tangent of 16.70
feet, a chord of 32.57 feet which
bears South 11° 24' 52" West, a distance of 32.84 feet to a drill hole to
be set;
4. Thence South 56° 40' 27" East,
a distance of 68.01 feet to a drill
hole to be set on the northerly line
of Old River Road, 66 feet wide;
5. Thence North 71° 42' 36" West
along said northerly line of Old
River Road, a distance of 94.41 feet
to a drill hole found at the southeasterly corner of land now or formerly owned by Flats East Development,
LLC,
Permanent
Parcel

July 9, 2008
Number 101-13-033, as recorded by
AFN
200804290435
of
Cuyahoga
County Deed Records;
6. Thence along the easterly line
of said Flats East Development,
LLC, and along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right and having a
radius of 1050.00 feet, a central
angle of 02° 47' 27", a tangent of
25.58 feet, a chord of 51.14 feet
which bears North 32° 28' 03" East,
a distance of 51.14 feet to a drill
hole found, and the northeasterly
corner thereof;
7. Thence South 58° 27' 12" West
along the northerly line of said
Flats East Development, LLC, a distance of 56.27 feet to a drill hole
found at a point of curvature;
8. Thence continuing along said
northerly line of said Flats East
Development, LLC, and along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the left
and having a radius of 4.00 feet, a
central angle of 130° 09' 44", a tangent of 8.61 feet, a chord of 7.26 feet
which bears South 06° 37' 41" East,
a distance of 9.09 feet to a drill hole
found on the northerly line of aforementioned Old River Road, 66 feet
wide, and the southwesterly corner
thereof;
9. Thence North 71° 42' 36" West
along said northerly line of said Old
River Road, a distance of 42.92 feet
to a mag nail to be set at its intersection with the southerly line of
Main Avenue, 40 feet wide;
10. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East
along the southerly line of said
Main Avenue, a distance of 229.22
feet to the True Point of Beginning,
and containing 0.2238 acre (9,747
Square Feet) of land, more or less,
and subject to all easements, restrictions, and covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD83
0.0251 ACRE (1,094 SQUARE FEET)
PARCEL “D”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Number 194, and
also being further bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the center
line intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and traveled roadway of
West 10th
Street, of which said
monument bears North 55° 38' 38"
East, 404.06 feet from a one inch
iron pin monument found at the center line intersection of aforementioned Main Avenue, and Old River
Road, 66 feet wide; thence South 55°
38' 38" West along the center line
of Main Avenue, a distance of 51.13
feet to a point therein; thence South
34° 21' 22" East, a distance of 20.00
feet to a drill hole to be set on the
southerly line of said Main Avenue,
the northeasterly corner of land now
or formerly owned by the Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners,
Permanent Parcel Number 101-13-029,
and the northwesterly corner of land
now or formerly owned by the City
of
Cleveland,
Permanent
Parcel
Number 101-13-006, Parcel B, said

The City Record
point also being the TRUE POINT
OF BEGINNING for the land hereinafter described, thence clockwise
along the following four courses
and distances:
1. Thence South 34° 25' 09" East
along the easterly line of said Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, and the westerly line of said
City of Cleveland, a distance of 40.00
feet to a drill hole to be set at an
angle point;
2. Thence South 55° 38' 38" West,
a distance of 22.69 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”
at an angle point;
3. Thence North 47° 31' 43" West,
a distance of 41.08 feet to a mag nail
to be set on the southerly line of
aforementioned Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and the northerly line of
said Cuyahoga County Board of
Commissioners;
4. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East
along said northerly line of Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, and said southerly line of Main
Avenue, a distance of 32.00 feet to
the True Point of Beginning, and
containing 0.0251 acre (1,094 Square
Feet) of land, more or less, and subject to all easements, restrictions,
and covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, Professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD83
0.3684 ACRE (16,046 SQUARE FEET)
PARCEL “E”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Number 194, and
also being further bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument at the center line
intersection of Main Avenue, 40 feet
wide, and traveled roadway of West
10th Street, of which said monument
bears North 55° 38' 38" East, 404.06
feet from a one inch iron pin monument at the center line intersection
of aforementioned Main Avenue, and
Old River Road, 66 feet wide; thence
North 55° 38' 38" East along the
center line of said Main Avenue, a
distance of 80.49 feet to a point
therein; thence South 34° 21' 22"
East, a distance of 20.00 feet to a
drill hole to be set at the intersection of the southerly line of said
Main Avenue and the easterly line
of West 10th Street, and the northwesterly corner of land now or formerly owned by the Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, Permanent Parcel Number 101-13-031, said
point also being the TRUE POINT
OF BEGINNING for the land hereinafter described, thence clockwise
along the following four courses
and distances:
1. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East
along the southerly line of Main
Avenue, 40 feet wide, and the
northerly line of the Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners, a
calculated distance of 434.25 feet to
a drill hole to be set at its intersection with the westerly line of
West 9th Street, 99 feet wide;

1409

33
2. Thence South 34° 24' 38" East
along the westerly line of said West
9th Street, 99 feet wide, a distance
of 36.72 feet to a drill hole to be set
therein;
3. Thence South 55° 35' 04" West,
a calculated distance of 434.40 feet
to a point in the easterly line of
aforementioned West 1 0th Street,
and the westerly line of aforementioned Cuyahoga County Board of
Commissioners, which is referenced
by a drill hole on line, 0.80 feet
southwesterly;
4. Thence North 34° 10' l5" West
along said easterly line of West 10th
Street, and along said westerly line
of Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, a calculated distance of
37.17 feet (37.15 feet deed) to the
True Point of Beginning, and containing 0.3684 acre (16,046 Square
Feet) of land, more or less, and subject to all easements, restrictions,
and covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, Professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD83
0.0776 ACRE (3,380 SQUARE FEET)
PARCEL “F”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 194 and
195, and also being further bounded
and described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the centerline intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and Old River Road, 66
feet wide, of which said monument
bears North 71° 42' 36" West, 22.84
feet from a 5/8 inch iron pin monument found at an angle point in the
centerline of aforementioned Old
River Road; thence South 71° 42' 36"
East along the center line of Old
River Road, a distance of 99.66 feet
to a point therein; thence South 18°
17' 24" West, a distance of 33.00 feet
to a point on the southerly line of
said Old River Road, the northeasterly corner of land now or formerly
owned by Flats East Development,
LLC, Permanent Parcel Number 10113-036,
as
recorded
by
AFN
200804290435 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records, and the northwesterly corner of land now or formerly
owned by the Cuyahoga County
Board of Commissioners, Permanent
Parcel Number 101-13-028; thence
South 30° 29' 18" West along the
easterly line of said Flats East
Development, LLC, and along the
westerly line of said Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners, a
distance of 73.79 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”
said point also being the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING for the area
of land hereinafter described, thence
clockwise along the following six
courses and distances;
1. Thence South 59° 25' 57" East,
a distance of 105.79 feet to a point
on the easterly line of aforementioned Cuyahoga County Board of
Commissioners, and the westerly
line of land now or formerly owned
by Telecom Acquisition Corp. I, Inc.,
Permanent Parcel Number 101-13-027,

34
as recorded by AFN 200509301253 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
2. Thence South 27° 59' 34" West
along said easterly line of Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, and along said westerly line of
Telecom Acquisition Corp. I, Inc., a
distance of 26.76 feet to the northeasterly dock line of the Cuyahoga
River, as established by Ordinance
31,283, passed March 04, 1901;
3. Thence North 63° 15' 56" West
along said northeasterly dock line
of the Cuyahoga River, a calculated
distance of 54.32 feet (54.34 feet
deed) to an angle point;
4. Thence North 69° 26' 45" West
continuing along said northeasterly
dock line of the Cuyahoga River, a
calculated distance of 47.02 feet
(47.04 feet deed) to an angle point;
5. Thence North 71° 49' 29" West
continuing along said northeasterly
dock line of the Cuyahoga River, a
calculated distance of 6.59 feet to
the southeasterly corner of aforementioned Flats East Development,
LLC, Permanent Parcel Number 10113-036;
6. Thence North 30° 29' 18" East
along said easterly line of Flats
East Development, LLC, a distance
of 39.96 feet to the True Point of
Beginning, and containing 0.0776
acre (3,380 Square Feet) of land,
more or less, and subject to all easements, restrictions, and covenants of
record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD 83
0.1062 ACRE (4,624 SQUARE FEET)
RESIDUAL PARCEL “G”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 194 and
195, and also being further bounded
and described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the centerline intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and Old River Road, 66
feet wide, of which said monument
bears North 71° 42' 36" West, 262.54
feet from a 5/8 inch iron pin monument found at an angle point in the
centerline of aforementioned Old
River Road; thence South 71° 42' 36"
East along the center line of Old
River Road, a distance of 99.66 feet
to a point therein; thence South 18°
17' 24" West, a distance of 33.00 feet
to a point on the southerly line of
said Old River Road, and the northeasterly corner of land now or formerly owned by Flats East Development,
LLC,
Permanent
Parcel
Number 101-13-036, as recorded by
AFN
200804290435
of
Cuyahoga
County Deed Records, said point
also being the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING for the area of land
hereinafter described, thence clockwise along the following four courses and distances:
1. Thence South 71° 42' 36" East
along the southerly line of said Old
River Road, a distance of 103.96 feet
to the northwesterly corner of land
now or formerly owned by Telecom

The City Record
Acquisition Corp. I, Inc., Permanent
Parcel Number 101-13-027, as recorded by AFN 200509301253 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
2. Thence South 27° 59' 34" West
along said westerly line of Telecom
Acquisition Corp. I, Inc., a distance
of 55.95 feet to a mag nail to be set;
3. Thence North 59° 25' 57" West,
a distance of 104.04 feet to a 5/8
inch iron pin to be set with cap,
“GPD” on the easterly line of aforementioned Flats East Development,
LLC;
4. Thence North 30° 29' 18" East
along said easterly line of Flats
East Development, LLC, a distance
of 33.79 feet to the True Point of
Beginning, and containing 0.1062
acre (4,624 square Feet) of land,
more or less, and subject to all legal
easements,
restrictions,
and
covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD 83
0.2800 ACRE (12,198 SQUARE FEET)
RESIDUAL PARCEL “H”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 194 and
195, and also being further bounded
and described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the center
line intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and traveled roadway of
West 10th
Street, of which said
monument bears North 55° 38' 38"
East, 404.06 feet from a one inch
iron pin monument found at the center line intersection of aforementioned Main Avenue, and Old River
Road, 66 feet wide; thence South 55°
38' 38" West along the center line
of Main Avenue, a distance of 51.13
feet to a point therein; thence South
34° 21' 22" East, a distance of 20.00
feet to a drill hole to be set on the
southerly line of said Main Avenue,
and the northwesterly corner of land
now or formerly owned by the City
of
Cleveland,
Permanent
Parcel
Number 101-13-036, Parcel B; thence
South 34° 25' 09" East along said
westerly line of the City of Cleveland, a distance of 40.00 feet to a
drill hole to be set, said point also
being the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING
for
the
land
hereinafter
described, thence clockwise along
the following ten courses and distances:
1. Thence continuing South 34° 25'
09" East along said westerly line of
the City of Cleveland, a distance of
32.51 feet to a point on a curve, and
the northeasterly corner of land now
or formerly owned by G.C.R.T.A.,
Permanent Parcel Number 101-13-041;
2. Thence along the northerly line
of said G.C.R.T.A. and its southwesterly extension, and along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the left
and having a radius of 950.00 feet,
a central angle of 12° 20' 18", a tangent of 102.69 feet, a chord of 204.19
feet which bears South 38° 36' 49"
West, a distance of 204.58 feet to a
drill hole found on the northerly line

PPPP

July 9, 2008
of aforementioned Old River Road,
66 feet wide;
3. Thence North 71° 42' 36" West
along the northerly line of said Old
River Road, a distance of 8.41 feet
to a drill hole to be set therein;
4. Thence North 56° 40' 27" West,
a distance of 68.01 feet to a drill
hole to be set at a point of curve;
5. Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left and having a
radius of 73.50 feet, a central angle
of 25° 36' 06", a tangent of 16.70
feet, a chord of 32.57 feet which
bears North 11° 24' 52" East, a distance of 32.84 feet to a 5/8 inch iron
pin to be set with cap, “GPD”;
6. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East,
a distance of 145.18 feet to a 5/8
inch iron pin to be set with cap, a
“GPD” at an angle point;
7. Thence South 47° 31' 43" East,
a distance of 27.15 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”,
at an angle point;
8. Thence North 42° 28' 17" East,
a distance of 34.00 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”
at an angle point;
9. Thence North 47° 31' 43" West,
a distance of 19.19 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”,
at an angle point;
10. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East,
a distance of 22.69 feet to the True
Point of Beginning, and containing
0.2800 acre (12,198 Square Feet) of
land, more or less, and subject to all
easements,
restrictions,
and
covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
Noah
Zone, NAD83
0.3324 ACRE (14,482 SQUARE FEET)
RESI DUAL PARCEL “I”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Number 194, and
also being further bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument at the center line
intersection of West 9th Street, 99
feet wide, and Lakeside Avenue, of
which said monument bears South
34° 24' 38" East, 572.97 feet from a
3/4 inch iron pin monument found
at the center line intersection of
aforementioned West 9th Street and
Front Avenue, 80 feet wide; thence
North 34° 24' 38" West along the
center line of said West 9th Street,
99 feet wide, a distance of 76.53 feet
to a point therein; thence South 55°
34' 19" West, a distance of 49.50 feet
to a point on the westerly line of
said West 9th Street, and a northeasterly corner of land now or formerly owned by Sabeta Realty Company, Permanent Parcel Number 10113-001; said point also being the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING for
the
land
hereinafter
described,
thence clockwise along the following four courses and distances:
1. Thence continuing South 55°
34' l9" West along the northerly
line of said Sabeta Realty Company, a calculated distance of 169.73
feet (170.00 feet deed) to an angle
point;

July 9, 2008
2. Thence North 34° 27' 56" West
continuing along said northerly line
of Sabeta Realty Company, a calculated distance of 85.32 feet (85.45
feet deed) to an angle point;
3. Thence North 55° 35' 04" East,
a calculated distance of 169.82 feet
to a drill hole to be set on the westerly line of aforementioned West 9th
Street, 99 feet wide;
4. Thence South 34° 24' 38" East
along the westerly line of said West
9th Street, a distance of 85.28 feet to
the True Point of Beginning, and
containing 0.3324 acre (14,482 Square
Feet) of land, more or less, and subject to all easements, restrictions,
and covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD83
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to execute on behalf of the City of Cleveland all necessary documents to
acquire and to convey the properties and to employ and pay all
fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, environmental
audits, and all other costs necessary
for the acquisition of the properties.
Section 3. That at the direction of
the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to convey Parcels A and
B described in Section 1, to the State
of Ohio for $1.00, and other valuable
consideration, which is determined
to be fair market value by the
Board
of
Control,
taking
into
account all restrictions, reversionary
interests and similar encumbrances
placed by the City of Cleveland in
the deeds of conveyance.
Section 4. That at the direction of
the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to convey Parcels C and
E described in Section 1, to the
Redeveloper for $1.00, and other
valuable consideration, which is
determined to be fair market value
by the Board of Control, taking into
account all restrictions, reversionary
interests and similar encumbrances
placed by the City of Cleveland in
the deeds of conveyance.
Section 5. That this Council finds
that the conveyances to the State of
Ohio and the Redeveloper of properties described in Sections 3 and 4
above, constitute a public use of the
properties for the purposes of redeveloping the Flats:
Section 6. That the conveyances
shall be made by official deeds prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deeds
shall contain necessary provisions,
including
restrictive
reversionary
interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the parties as
their respective interests require
and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any
advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

The City Record
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1027-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Saint Martin De Porres High School Work
Study Program to participate as a
sponsor of students for work/study
positions with Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Saint Martin de Porres High School Work Study Program in order to participate as a
sponsor of students for work/study
positions with Cleveland City Council. This agreement shall be entered
into as of August 1, 2008 and shall
terminate July 31, 2009. Cleveland
City Council shall provide sponsorship for up to four students at a
time during the term. The agreement shall be certified for $28,500.00
and shall be certified from fund
numbers 632000-01-010100.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1066-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance amending
the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 894-08 passed June 2, 2008 as it
pertains to the “Downtown Digs,” A
Guide to Living Downtown Cleveland
Project through the use of Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 894-08 passed
June 2, 2008 are hereby amended to
read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement
with
Downtown
Cleveland
Alliance for the “Downtown Digs,” A
Guide to Living Downtown Cleve-

1411

35
land Project through the use of
Ward
13
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with
the
Downtown
Cleveland
Alliance for the “Downtown Digs,” A
Guide to Living Downtown Cleveland Project for the public purpose
of increasing residential growth opportunities for City residents in
downtown Cleveland through the
use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 894-08 passed
June 2, 2008 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1067-08.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning
Commission
to
enter
into
agreement with the Shaker Square
Area Development Corporation for
the Larchmere Blvd. Master Plan
Update Project through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission to enter
into agreement with the Shaker
Square Area Development Corporation for the Larchmere Blvd. Master
Plan Update Project for the public
purpose of promoting the development of the Larchmere Blvd Business District to encourage economic
revitalization through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $30,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

36
Ord. No. 1068-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
agreement with the Breakers of
Rocky River for a recreational softball baseball program for young
women through the use of Ward 20
Neighborhood Recreation Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
enters into an agreement with the
Breakers of Rocky River for a recreational softball baseball team for
young women for the public purpose
of providing organized team sports
activities for young women residing
in the city of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $1,036 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1069-08.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with the
Cleveland State University Foundation for the Cleveland Police Review
Board Project through the use of
Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety enters into an agreement with the Cleveland State University Foundation for the Cleveland Police Review Board Project
for the public purpose of performing
a quantitative and qualitative report
analyzing
the
activities
of
the
Cleveland
Police
Review
Board
through the use of Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.

The City Record
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1070-08.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Buckeye Area Development Corporation on behalf of the East 122nd
Street Club to stretch banners on
East 122nd Street between Buckeye
and Williams for the period from
July 7, 2008 to August 6, 2008, inclusive, promoting street pride.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue
a permit to the Buckeye Area
Development Corporation on behalf
of the East 122nd Street Club to
install, maintain and remove banners on East 122nd Street between
Buckeye and Williams for the period from July 7, 2008 to August 6,
2008, inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1412

July 9, 2008
Ord. No. 1071-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Mega Church to stretch banners at
the intersections of Scranton Road
and Behrer & Scranton Road and
Althen, for the period from July 21,
2008 to August 18, 2008 inclusive,
publicizing the Mega FUN Day.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to install,
maintain and remove banners at the
intersections of Scranton Road and
Behrer & Scranton Road and Althen,
from July 21, 2008 to August 18,
2008, inclusive. Said banners shall
be approved by the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as to not
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1072-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Council President to enter
into contract with Cobalt Group, Inc.
for professional services to assist
City Council leadership and staff in
planning, implementing and sustaining operational improvements to
support efficient systems/processes
and delivery of quality services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council President is hereby authorized to enter
into a contract with Cobalt Group,
Inc. for professional services to assist City Council leadership and
staff in planning, implementing and
sustaining operational improvements
to support efficient systems/processes and delivery of quality services,
for a period beginning in July 2008
and concluding in November 2008.

July 9, 2008
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $25,000 and
shall be payable from Fund Numbers 632000-01-010100.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1017-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Zone and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution acknowledging that the City of Cleveland,
Division of Water, provides water
service to 1121 East 260th Street,
Euclid, Ohio.
Whereas,
Ray
Fogg
Building
Methods, Inc. (“Ray Fogg”) has submitted a Job Ready Sites application
to request assistance to develop the
PMX Euclid site, located at 1121
East 260th Street in Euclid, Ohio;
and
Whereas, Ray Fogg has requested
the City to acknowledge that they
provide water service to the development
site
so
that
they
can
strengthen their Job Ready Sites’
application; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water, acknowledges that it provides water service
to 1121 East 260th Street, Euclid,
Ohio, meeting at least the minimum
capacity required for certification
under the Ohio Job Ready Sites Program.
Section 2. That the Mayor of the
City of Cleveland and this Council
support the development at 1121
East 260th Street, Euclid, Ohio, by
Ray Fogg.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to Mr. Michael J.
Novachek, PE, Ray Fogg Building
Methods, Inc., 981 Keynote Circle,
Cleveland, Ohio 44131.
Section 4. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1018-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Zone and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution acknowledging that the City of Cleveland,
Division of Water, provides water
service to 23555 Euclid Avenue,
Euclid, Ohio.
Whereas,
HBP
Euclid
Corp
(“HBP”) has submitted a Job Ready
Sites application to request assistance to develop the HBP Euclid
Corp. Redevelopment Project site,
located at 23555 Euclid Avenue,
Euclid, Ohio; and
Whereas, HBP has requested the
City to acknowledge that they provide water service to the development site so that they can strengthen their Job Ready Sites’ application; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water, acknowledges that it provides water service
to 23555 Euclid Avenue, Euclid,
Ohio, meeting at least the minimum
capacity required for certification
under the Ohio Job Ready Sites Program.
Section 2. That the Mayor of the
City of Cleveland and this Council
support the development at 23555
Euclid Avenue, Euclid, Ohio, by
HBP.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to Carol Smith, Ohio
Realty Advisors, LLC, 3623 Brecksville Road, Richfield, Ohio 44286.
Section 4. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1019-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Zone and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution acknowledging that the City of Cleveland,
Division of Water, provides water
service to Strongsville Business &
Technology Park (Parcel D) on
Foltz Parkway in Strongsville, Ohio.
Whereas,
City
of
Strongsville
(“Strongsville”) has submitted a Job
Ready Sites application to request
assistance to develop the Strongsville Business & Technology Park
(Parcel D), located at on Foltz
Parkway in Strongsville, Ohio; and
Whereas,
Strongsville
has
requested the City to acknowledge
that they provide water service to
the development site so that they
can strengthen their Job Ready
Sites’ application; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

1413

37
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water, acknowledges that it provides water service
to the Strongsville Business & Technology Park (Parcel D) site located
at on Foltz Parkway in Strongsville,
Ohio, meeting at least the minimum
capacity required for certification
under the Ohio Job Ready Sites Program.
Section 2. That the Mayor of the
City of Cleveland and this Council
support the development at the
Strongsville Business & Technology
Park (Parcel D), located at on Foltz
Parkway in Strongsville, Ohio by
Strongsville.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to Mr. Eugene Magocky, Director of Economic Development, City of Strongsville, 16099
Foltz Parkway, Strongsville, Ohio
44149.
Section 4. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1020-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Zone and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution acknowledging that the City of Cleveland,
Division of Water, provides water
service and Division of Water Pollution Control, provides storm, sanitary and industrial waste sewer service to Independence and Pershing
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas,
City
of
Cleveland
(“City”) has submitted a Job Ready
Sites application to request assistance to develop the Cuyahoga Valley Industrial Center, located at
Independence and Pershing Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio; and
Whereas, the City acknowledges
that it provides water service to the
development site so to strengthen
its Job Ready Sites’ application; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water, acknowledges that it provides water service
to
Independence
and
Pershing
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, meeting at
least the minimum capacity required
for certification under the Ohio Job
Ready Sites Program.
Section 2. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water Pollution
Control, acknowledges that it provides storm, sanitary and industrial
waste sewer service to Independence and Pershing Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, meeting at least the min-

38
imum capacity required for certification under the Ohio Job Ready
Sites Program.
Section 3. That the Mayor of the
City of Cleveland and this Council
support the development at Independence
and
Pershing
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio, by the City.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to the Director of
Economic Development for the City
of Cleveland.
Section 5. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1021-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Zone and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution acknowledging that the City of Cleveland,
Division of Water, provides water
service and Division of Water Pollution Control, provides storm, sanitary and industrial waste sewer service to 842 East 79th Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, 79th Street Associates,
LLC (“79th Street Associates”) has
submitted a Job Ready Sites application to request assistance to develop the Shoreway Industrial Park,
located at 842 East 79th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio; and
Whereas, 79th Street Associates
has requested the City to acknowledge that they provide water service
to the development site so that they
can strengthen their Job Ready
Sites’ application; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water, acknowledges that it provides water service
to 842 East 79h Street, Cleveland,
Ohio, meeting at least the minimum
capacity required for certification
under the Ohio Job Ready Sites Program.
Section 2. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water Pollution
Control, acknowledges that it provides storm, sanitary and industrial
waste sewer service to 842 East 79th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio, meeting at
least the minimum capacity required
for certification under the Ohio Job
Ready Sites Program.
Section 3. That the Mayor of the
City of Cleveland and this Council
support the development at 842 East
79th Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to Mitchell C. Schneider, President, First Interstate, 25333
Cedar Road, Suite 300, Lyndhurst,
Ohio 44124-3788.

The City Record
Section 5. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1030-08.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3071 East
65th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4199709 owned by
James Jackson, DBA Vince’s Café,
3071 East 65th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44127; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based upon substantial legal grounds
within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force

1414

July 9, 2008
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1031-08.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 6101
Fleet Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6X
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 0084408
owned by Akita, Inc., DBA The
Fleet Avenue Bar, 6101 Fleet Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

July 9, 2008
Res. No. 1032-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of liquor license
of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 727
Bolivar Road and Patio.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
liquor license of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit from 1624 Superior Avenue,
Inc., 1724 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
6549160 to 1624 Superior Avenue, Inc.,
727 Bolivar Road and Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
65491600001; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of liquor license of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from 1624 Superior
Avenue, Inc., 1724 Superior Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 6549160 to 1624 Superior
Avenue, Inc., 727 Bolivar Road and
Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number
65491600001and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1033-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1311
East 49th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6X
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 7095204
owned by Demetrius Pryor, DBA
Bull Shooters, 1311 East 49th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.

1415

39
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1034-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 2325 Elm Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code, objections to renewal
of liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit Nos. 5870816, 5870816-0003,
5870816-0004 owned by Metropolis
Night Club, Inc., DBA Metropolis,
2325 Elm Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44113; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of
this resolution, together with two
copies of a letter of objection and
two copies of a letter requesting
that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

40
Res. No. 1035-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 3232
Lakeside Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2779680
owned
by
Flextron,
LLC,
DBA
Gotcha Inn, 3232 Lakeside Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1036-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of liquor license
of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to
3009 Payne Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control

The City Record
of an application for the transfer of
liquor license of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit from Little Kings Lounge,
Inc., DBA Little Kings Lounge, 3061
Payne Avenue, 1st floor and patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 52379270001 to Little Kings
Lounge, Inc., DBA Little Kings
Lounge, 3009 Payne Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
52379270002; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit from Little Kings Lounge,
Inc., DBA Little Kings Lounge, 3061
Payne Avenue, 1st floor and patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 52379270001 to Little Kings
Lounge, Inc., DBA Little Kings
Lounge, 3009 Payne Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
52379270002; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

1416

July 9, 2008
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1037-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 4059 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code, objections to renewal
of liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 8177655 owned by Simply Ours,
LLC, DBA On the Rocks Lounge, 4059
St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44103; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

July 9, 2008
Res. No. 1038-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 6702
St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 8988551 owned by
Topcat, LLC, DBA Topcats Pub &
Grill, 6702 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44103; and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based upon substantial legal grounds
within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of
the Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1039-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 2553 Superior Avenue.

The City Record
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0898467-1104 owned by BP Products of
North America, Inc., DBA Site #1104,
2553 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44114; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1040-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3146 West 14th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renew-

1417

41
al of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7462760 owned by Rodeo Bar & Grill,
Inc., DBA Rodeo Bar & Grill, 3146
West 14th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44109; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1041-08.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 1163 East 123rd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor per-

42
mit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 6549205 owned by 123 Food Mart,
Inc., DBA USA Food Mart, 1163 East
123rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44108;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1042-08.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 453 Dundee Drive.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other

The City Record
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 5380275 owned by M & M Allan,
Inc., DBA Central Fox Market, 453
Dundee Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44108;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1043-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 5110 Clark Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section

1418

July 9, 2008
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
9161035-0021 owned by United Petroleum Marketing, LLC, Thomas E.
Pratt Rcvr., DBA UPM #207, 5110
Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1044-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3101 Scranton
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,

July 9, 2008
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
23943930005 owned by Eaman, Inc.,
DBA Gas USA, 3101 Scranton Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1045-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 3238 West 44th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0010247 owned by A & I, Inc., DBA
Rite Choice Market, 3238 West 44th

The City Record
Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44109;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1046-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 2132 West
25th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code, objections to renewal
of liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9956778 owned by ZMDS
Entertainment,
Inc.,
DBA
Envy
Lounge, 2132 West 25th Street, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44113; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said appli-

1419

43
cation in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1047-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
Liquor License of a D5 Liquor Permit at 3463 Fulton Road, and repealing Resolution No. 966-08, objecting
to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 Liquor Permit to 3463 Fulton
Road by Resolution No. 966-08 adopted by the Council on June 9, 2008;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer of liquor license and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
Liquor Permit to The District, LLC,
3463 Fulton Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 2201526 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 966-08, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

44
Res. No. 1048-08.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 12524 Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 2259486 owned by Donofrio Management, LLC, DBA Juniors Pub,
12524 Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44111; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1049-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit at 900 Carnegie Avenue, and
repealing
Resolution
No.
879-08,
objecting to said transfer.

The City Record
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Carnegie
Energy, Inc., DBA Carnegie BP, 900
Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent No. 1269332, by
Resolution No. 879-08 adopted by the
Council on June 2, 2008; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Carnegie
Energy, Inc., DBA Carnegie BP, 900
Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 1269332 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 879-08, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1050-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4643 Broadway
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
76857450005 owned by Salina, Inc.,

1420

July 9, 2008
DBA Broadway Deli, 4643 Broadway
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44127; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1051-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2288 East 55th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 5380075 owned by M & I Deli, DBA
M & I Deli, 2288 East 55th Street, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44103; and requests the Director of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this

July 9, 2008
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1052-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3382 West 44th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
1639762 owned by Heriberto Colon,
DBA El Tropical, 3382 West 44th
Street, 1st floor rear and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.

The City Record
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1053-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4020 Bridge Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0050321 owned by Adam Deli, Inc.,
4020 Bridge Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44113; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

1421

45
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1054-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3363 East 93rd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code, objections to renewal
of liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
68577350005 owned by Petrobarrels,
Inc., DBA Sunoco Family Foods Express, 3363 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based upon substantial legal grounds
within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

46
Res. No. 1055-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 7535 Kinsman
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 5144147 owned by Kimetra L.
Leslie, DBA Big Fahies Deli, 7535
Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1056-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2, and
D6 Liquor Permit at 3230 East 93rd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal

The City Record
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 7974550 owned by Semaan
Marketing, Inc., DBA Semaan Marketing, 3230 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1057-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3019 East 116th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

1422

July 9, 2008
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code, objections to renewal
of liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
1896113 owned by Albert Dailey, DBA
Daileys, 3019 East 116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1058-08.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 788 East 200th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

July 9, 2008
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0292783 owned by Ash Kirat Corporation, DBA Convenient Food Mart, #3030, 788 East 200th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44119; and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1059-08.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 15507
Saranac Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 9574755 owned by
White Road Gang, Inc., DBA Wallands Saloon, 15507 Saranac Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based upon substantial legal grounds
within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1060-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 10008 Buckeye Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
72245520007 owned by Ray Por, Inc.,
DBA Eastwood Inn, 10008 Buckeye
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104; and requests the Director of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the

1423

47
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1061-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 11132
Buckeye Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 6877045 owned by
Phase III, Corporation, 11132 Buckeye
Road, P.O. Box 20370, Cleveland, Ohio
44104; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

48
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1062-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 287175 East 116th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code, objections to renewal
of liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 1381967 owned by Chareese, Inc., DBA RD’s Seafood & Steak
House, 2871-75 East 116th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1063-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 2603 Woodhill
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4118409 owned by Ibald, Ind., DBA
American Food Mart, 2603 Woodhill
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104; and requests the Director of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1064-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 2623 Woodhill
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal cor-

1424

July 9, 2008
poration may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0084375 owned by AJS Enterprises,
Inc., DBA Hill Top Deli, 2623 Woodhill Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1065-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D4 Liquor
Permit at 2890 Woodhill Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

July 9, 2008
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D4 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2402359 owned by East End Democratic Club, 2890 Woodhill Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1971-06
By Council Members Kelley, Britt
and Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 405.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
passed June 12, 2000 relating to towing fees.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Legislation, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section 405.06(a)(2), line 1, strike “one
hundred
dollars
($100.00)”
and
insert “ninety dollars ($90.00)”; in
line 2, strike “sixty dollars ($60.00)”
and insert “fifty dollars ($50.00)”; in
lines 3 and 4, strike “one hundred
and fifty dollars ($150.00)” and
insert “one hundred and twenty-five
dollars ($125.00)”; and in line 7,
after “flatbed” strike “s” and insert
“is”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 405-08.
By Council Members Coats, Mitchell,
Johnson, Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to execute a
deed of easement granting to Judson Retirement Community Center
certain easement rights in property
located on Chestnut Hills Drive in
the City of Cleveland Heights and
declaring that the easement rights
granted are not needed for public
use.

49
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Public Service, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 509-08.
Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Hawthorne Avenue
to Petar Oroz.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 588-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts
with Critical Business Analysis, Inc.
for professional services necessary
to acquire software upgrades to Expedition software, and for set-up,
maintenance, training, hosting, and
support services related to its use,
for a period of one year, with two
one-year options to renew, the second of which is exercisable through
additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 591-08.
By Council Members Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of various on-road
vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment and other aftermarket items necessary
to equip the vehicles authorized for their intended purposes, including vehicle rehabilitation, training, and
inspections, as needed, for the various divisions of City government.
Approved by Directors of Public Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at the vehicles listed under “ENTERPRISE FUND”, strike Item Numbers 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25,
26, and 27 in their entirety and insert:
“20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27

SUV, 4x4, Hybrid
Pick-Up, 1/2 Ton
Pick-Up, 3/4 Ton
Pick-Up, Crew Cab
Pick-Up, 4x4
Cargo Van, Full-Size (or pick-up w/ storage)
Cab/Chassis w/USV
Cab/Chassis w/USV and valve turner”.

Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water
Water

4
5
1
3
3
1
2
3

$ 30,000
$ 24,000
$ 27,000
$ 36,000
$ 40,000
$ 30,000
$ 80,000
$120,000

$120,000
$120,000
$ 27,000
$108,000
$120,000
$ 30,000
$160,000
$360,000

2. In Section 1, at “ENTERPRISE FUND”, between lines 28 and 29, strike “1,629,000” and insert “1,435,000”; and
at Item Number 47, under “Item Description” insert “SUV, 4x4”; and at “GRAND TOTALS”, strike “14,854,000” and
insert “14,660,000”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 1.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Mitchell, Pierce Scott, Polensek, Santiago, Turner, White and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Member Reed.
Absent: Council Members Lewis and Westbrook.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council
before final passage.

1425

50
Ord. No. 648-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving certain amendments to the Flats
East Bank Community Development
Plan for the Plan Area and for the
Action Area which is located within
the Plan Area.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Community
Development, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on City Planning, Community and
Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 649-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Johnson and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept a grant from the State
of Ohio to assist with the acquisition of real property needed for the
Flats East Bank Project; authorizing a project agreement with The
Wolstein Group, Inc. and The Flats
East Development LLC relating to
the acquisition of property; authorizing
a
cooperative
agreement
with the State of Ohio, The Wolstein Group, Inc. and The Flats
East Development LLC relating to
the project; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies to purchase the subject
property.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, City Planning, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 4, strike the legal
description in its entirety and insert
the following:
“0.4647 ACRE PARCEL OF LAND
(PARK AREA)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Alfred Kelley’s Subdivision of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 191-193
inclusive, as recorded in Volume M,
page
484
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Beginning at a one inch iron pin
monument found in at the center
line intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and Old River Road, 66
feet wide, of which said monument
bears South 55° 38' 38" West, 404.06
feet from a one inch iron pin monument found at the center line intersection of said Main Avenue, 40 feet
wide, and the traveled roadway of
West 10th Street;
Thence North 71° 42' 36" West
along the center line of Old River
Road, 66 feet wide, a distance of
109.40 feet to a point therein;
Thence South 18° 09' 34" West, a
distance of 110.81 feet to a point on
the westerly line of land now or formerly owned by Flats East Development
LLC,
Permanent
Parcel

The City Record
Number 101-11-021, as recorded by
AFN
200009180713
of
Cuyahoga
County Deed Records, and the Principal Place of Beginning of the land
intended to be described herein;
Thence continuing South 18° 09'
34" West along said westerly line
of Flats East Development LLC, a
distance
of
43.62
feet
to
the
northerly dock line of the Cuyahoga River, as established by Ordinance Number 31,283, passed March
4, 1901, and the southwesterly corner thereof;
Thence North 76° 24' 14" West
along said northerly dock line of the
Cuyahoga River, a distance of 295.03
feet to an angle point;
Thence North 73° 32' 38" West
continuing
along
said
northerly
dock line of the Cuyahoga River, a
distance of 104.05 feet to an angle
point;
Thence North 73° 00' 12" West
continuing
along
said
northerly
dock line of the Cuyahoga River, a
distance of 137.34 feet to an angle
point;
Thence North 66° 02' 17" West
continuing
along
said
northerly
dock line of the Cuyahoga River, a
distance of 88.63 feet to an angle
point;
Thence North 55° 19' 17" West
continuing
along
said
northerly
dock line of the Cuyahoga River, a
distance of 0.88 feet to the southeasterly corner of land now or formerly owned by the Flats East
Development LLC, Permanent Parcel Number 101-11-014;
Thence North 18° 11' 54" East
along the easterly line of said
Flats East Development LLC, Permanent Parcel Number 101-11-014, a
distance of 25.56 feet to a point
therein;
Thence South 71° 54' 03" East, a
distance of 357.97 feet to a point on
the southerly line of land now or
formerly
owned
by
Flats
East
Development LLC, Permanent Parcel Number 101-11-017;
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, and having
a radius of 265.34 feet, a central
angle of 06° 36' 34", a tangent of
15.32 feet, a chord of 30.59 feet
which bears North 57° 12' 28" East,
a distance of 30.61 feet to a point of
curve;
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, and having a
radius of 400.00 feet, a central angle
of 36° 03' 14", a tangent of 130.18
feet, a chord of 247.57 feet which
bears South 75° 05' 58" East, a distance of 251.70 feet to the Principal
Place of Beginning, and containing
0.4647 acre (20,244 Square Feet) of
land, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways and
easements of record.
Prepared By: GPD ASSOCIATES
Project No. 2008002.00
June 24, 2008”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

1426

July 9, 2008
Ord. No. 652-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 67th Street to
69th Street Holdings LLC.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economc Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 684-08.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of renovating
and repairing Public Auditorium,
which includes Music Hall and
Public Hall, and renovating and
repairing the exhibit halls and
meeting rooms of the Convention
Center; authorizing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement; authorizing the Director to employ one or
more professional consultants to
design the improvement; and to
enter into various written standard
purchase
and
requirement
contracts needed in connection with
the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 698-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise an option to renew Contract
No. 67144 with Action Automatics,
Inc. to provide for parts necessary
to maintain and repair automatic
doors, including labor and installation, if necessary, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 707-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 33rd Street to
Shun Ting Mo and Catherine Yn
Lau.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning

July 9, 2008
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 708-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 33rd Street to
Tam Ching Chuen.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, lines 4 and 5; and
in Section 1, line 3, strike “Tam
Ching Chuen” and insert in both
places “Shun Ting Mo and Catherine
Yn Lau”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 755-08.
By Council Members White, Johnson, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located on the south side of Marston
Avenue, north of Miles Avenue, and
known as Permanent Parcel Nos.
138-11-146 and 138-11-147 to Union
Miles Development Corporation, or
its designee, for commercial development.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended
by
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 756-08.
By Council Members Kelley, Johnson, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept a grant from the State
of Ohio for site improvements at
Loew Park.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended
by
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 757-08.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Johnson and Cimperman (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to execute a
deed of easement granting to St.
Paul A.M.E. Church certain easement rights in property located
along Emery Park between Emery
Avenue and West 130th Street and
declaring
the
easement
rights
granted are not needed for public
use.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended
by
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 765-08.
By Council Members White, Pierce
Scott, Johnson, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to transfer Permanent
Parcel Nos. 134-20-001 and 134-20-051,
to the control, possession, and use of
the Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Parks, Recreation and Properties, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on Community and Economic Development, Public Parks, Property
and
Recreation,
City
Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 775-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic
Development
to
enter
into
an
amendment
to
the
development
agreement,
Contract
No.
65719,
with the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority and Flats East
Development LLC, for construction
and financing of residential units
and related commercial improvements.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 6, strike “77508-A” and insert “775-08-B”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

1427

51
Ord. No. 814-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of Ring Communications
standalone crash phone system, including installation and testing, for
the Division of Burke Lakefront Airport, Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 817-08.
By Council Members White, Pierce
Scott, Johnson and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of electronic
parking meters, for the Division of
Parking Facilities, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
for a period of one year.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on
Public
Parks,
Property
and
Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 829-08.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of City Planning
to enter into a Project Development
Agreement with the Cuyahoga County Board of County Commissioners,
Cleveland
Metroparks
Board
of
Parks Commissioners, and the Ohio
Canal Corridor, Inc. to implement
the Towpath Trail Project; and
authorizing other agreements relative to the Project.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 2, strike “Director of City Planning” and insert
“Directors of City Planning and
Parks, Recreation and Properties”;
in line 5 after “Commissioners,”
insert “the Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District,”; and in lines 6
and 7, strike “the Ohio Canal Corridor, Inc.” and insert “North Cuyahoga Valley, Inc. dba Ohio Canal
Corridor”.
2. In Section 1, line 1, strike
“Director of City Planning is” and
insert “Directors of City Planning
and Parks, Recreation and Properties are”; in Section 1, line 3, between “Commissioners,” and “Cleveland” insert “the Board of Park Commissioners of the Cleveland Metropolitan Park District,”; in Section 1,
lines 3 and 4, strike “the Ohio Canal
Corridor, Inc.” and insert “North
Cuyahoga Valley, Inc. dba Ohio
Canal Corridor”; and in line 5, strike

52
“File No. 829-08-A” and insert “File
No. 829-08-B”.
3. Insert new Sections 3 and 4 to
read as follows:
“Section 3. That if the Board of
Park Commissioners of the Cleveland
Metropolitan
Park
District
(“CMPD”) finds it necessary to hire
additional employees as a result of
the operation and maintenance of
the Towpath Trail, the Board of
Park Commissioners of the CMPD
shall notify the City of Cleveland’s
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources and the Clerk of Cleveland City Council of any job postings.
Section 4. That any City of Cleveland appointee to the Towpath Trail
Membership Committee, created by
the execution of the agreement
authorized by this ordinance, other
than the Director of Parks, Recreation & Properties, shall be made by
the Mayor with the approval of City
Council. City Council review and
approval shall occur through the
Mayor’s Appointment Committee.”.
3. Renumber existing Section 3 to
new “Section 5”.
4. In existing Section 2, line 1,
strike “Director of City Planning is”
and insert “Directors of City Planning and Parks, Recreation and
Properties are”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 861-08.
By Council Members Kelley, Pierce
Scott, Cimperman, Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 573.02, 573.04, 573.05, 573.10,
and 573.99 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended and enacted by various
ordinances, relating to obstructions
within the Harbor and relating
penalty.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control,
Building
and
Housing,
City Planning Commission, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Legislation, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. Insert new Section 3 to read as
follows:
“Section 3. That unless this Council authorizes, through additional
legislative authority, the continuation of the authority granted in this
ordinance
to
amended
Sections
573.02 and 573.04 before December
31, 2008, then the following Sections
of the Codified Ordinances shall be
enacted to read as follows:
Section 573.02 Removal of Obstructions; Notice; Enforcement
Whenever it becomes necessary,
in the judgment of Council, to cause
the removal of any obstruction
which was heretofore or is hereafter
placed within the limits of the harbor, as defined in the map of survey

The City Record
and
ordinance
establishing
the
same, Council shall cause an order
to be made requiring the removal of
such obstruction. Thereupon the
Director of Port Control shall cause
written notice to be served upon the
owner of any lot or land bounding
or abutting upon the harbor line
who may have caused such obstruction therein or who may have permitted any such obstruction to remain in front of his premises,
requiring him to remove the same
without delay. If such person neglects or refuses to remove or cause
the same to be removed within a
reasonable
time
after
receiving
notice of the same, the Director,
upon the order of Council, shall
cause the obstruction to be removed,
and the expense thereof may be
recovered from the owner in a civil
action before any court of competent
jurisdiction.
Section 573.04 Construction or Repair; Notice; Enforcement
(a) Whenever Council declares by
resolution that a condition exists
making it necessary that retaining
works or structures be constructed,
or any existing works or structures,
wharves, docks or bulkheads, or any
portion of the same be repaired
along the established dock lines of
the Cuyahoga River, old ship channel or the Standard Oil slip, in front
of any specified parcel of land abutting such waterway, the Clerk of
Council shall serve, or cause to be
served by some person designated
by him for that purpose, a written
notice of the passage of such resolution upon the owners of such parcel of land, or upon the agents of
such owners. Notice shall be served
and returned, or published in case
the owners or agents cannot be
found within the City, which service, return and publication shall be
in the manner provided for in RC
727.13.
(b) If the requirements of such
resolution are not observed within
such number of days from the service of notice or expiration of the
publication as are specified in the
resolution of Council, the Director of
Port Control shall have the same
done at the expense of the owner
and in accordance with the plan
attached to the resolution or as
therein described, and shall report
the cost thereof so that the same
may be a lien upon the property and
may be collected as is provided in
RC 727.33.”.
2. Renumber existing Section 3 to
new “Section 4”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 863-08.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Flats East Devel-

1428

July 9, 2008
opment, L.L.C. to encroach into the
public rights-of-way beneath Main
Avenue and beneath Front Avenue
by installing, using, and maintaining tie backs for a soil retention
system.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 869-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend Section 8 of Ordinance No.
531-07, passed April 23, 2007, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1946-07,
passed November 26, 2007, relating
to purchasing property at 1550
Superior Avenue to develop a transitional housing facility for men,
authorizing a purchase agreement
with Lake Erie Motel, Inc. for the
acquisition of furniture and fixtures; and authorizing the public
improvement
of
renovating
the
facility at 1550 Superior Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 870-08.
By Council Members Polensek,
Pierce Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to purchase
property for future redevelopment
at 789 East 157th Street, 1491 East
173rd Street, and 1452 Clermont, for
the Department of Community Development; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies to convey the property to
Collinwood
Nottingham
Villages
Development Corporation, or its
designee, which is not needed for
public use.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 871-08.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Pierce Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a development agreement with FBE Inc. for
the Morgana East Project.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage

July 9, 2008
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 889-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Woodhill Road and
Holton Avenue to Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 933-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control
to make alterations and modifications in Contract No. 66031 for Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co., Inc.
for the relocation of underground
utility installments beneath Cargo
Road.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 934-08.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Cudell
Improvement Inc. to encroach into
the public right-of-way of West
98th Street with 14 banners and to
be attached to Cleveland Public
Power utility poles (by separate
permission).
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 935-08.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the Cities Readiness Initiative Program; authorizing the purchase by
one or more requirement and standard contracts of materials, equipment, supplies, and services needed
to implement the program; authorizing the director to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies, entities, and individuals to implement the program; authorizing the
Director to employ one or more professional consultants to implement
the program; and authorizing the purchase or lease of television and radio
advertising time and other media.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 936-08.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the YMCA of Greater Cleveland for
the Reach Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 937-08.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor, materials, and services for salting and
snowplowing parking lots, walkways, and sidewalks at City health
centers and the Public Health Administration Building, for the Division of Health, Department of Public
Health, for a period of two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.

53
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 938-08.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title of Ordinance No. 1052-07,
passed August 8, 2007; relating to
authorizing the Director of Public
Health to apply for and accept
grants from the Cleveland Foundation and the Woodruff Foundation
for the Integrated Health Initiative
Program; to supplement the ordinance by enacting new Sections 5, 6,
and 7; and to renumber existing Section 5 to new Section 8.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Health
and Human Services, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 939-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts with
Matthew Malec for professional services necessary to provide operational
support for various IT programs and
project management services for the
Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 940-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
Coplogic, Inc. for the purchase of
the Desk Officer Online Reporting
System, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 961-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting new
Sections 698A.01 and 698A.99, relating to outdoor sales of tickets of admission to sporting and other events and
the establishment of exclusion and permissive zones for that activity and penalty; and to amend Section 698.06
as enacted by Ordinance No. 1290-A-43, passed October 22, 1945, relating to ticket brokers.
Approved by Directors of Public Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Safety,
Legislation, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at new Section 698A.01(b), line 7 after “event” insert “regardless of venue”.
2. In Section 1, at new Section 698A.01(c), line 2, after “zone are” insert “shown on the map and”; and in line
3, after “description” insert “both”.
3. In Section 4, line 1, after “That the” insert “map and”.

1429

The City Record

54

July 9, 2008

Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 17.
Nays 2.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brady, Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson,
Keane, Kelley, Mitchell, Pierce Scott, Polensek, Reed, Turner, White and Zone.
Those voting nay: Council Members Brancatelli and Santiago.
Absent: Council Members Lewis and Westbrook.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council
before final passage.

1430

July 9, 2008
SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1069-07.
By Council Member Cummins.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of land
located on the north and south sides
of Denison Avenue between West
16th Street and West 13th Street to
Local Retail Business, a ‘B’ Area
District and a ‘2’ Height District
(Map Change No. 2237; Sheet No. 6).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 558-08.
By Council Member Cummins.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands
located on the north side of Denison
Avenue east of West 22nd Place and
south of Fern Court shown shaded
on the attached map to a Multi-Family Residential District, ‘D’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District (Map
Change No. 2262; Sheet No. 2).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 554-08.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (By Request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Front Avenue N.W. and a portion of
Old River Road N.W.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended by Committees on Public
Service,
City
Planning,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 3, strike “and”;
and at the end of the title, after
“River Road N.W.” insert “, a portion
of Main Avenue N.W., and a portion
of West 10th Street.”.
2. In the first whereas clause, line
2, strike “and”; and after “N.W.,
insert “a portion of Main Avenue
N.W., and a portion of West 10th
Street,”.
3. In Section 1, strike the legal
description for “FRONT AVENUE
N.W.” in its entirety and insert:
“FRONT AVENUE N.W.
Being all that portion of Front
Avenue N.W. (80 feet wide) extending westerly from the northerly prolongation of the westerly line of
Block “E” of the R. Moodie W9 Ltd.
Consolidation plat as recorded in
Volume 319, Page 23 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records to the easterly
line of the Cuyahoga River”.
4. In Section 1, after the legal
description for OLD RIVER ROAD
and
before
the
paragraph
that
begins with “Legal Description approved”, insert the following new
legal descriptions:

The City Record
“MAIN AVENUE N.W.
Being all that portion of Main
Avenue N.W. (width varies) extending westerly from the westerly right
of way line of West 9th Street (66
feet wide) to the northeasterly dock
line of the Cuyahoga River, as
established
by
Ordinance
312-83,
passed March 4, 1901.
WEST 10th STREET
Being all that remaining portion
of West 10th Street (50 feet wide)
and its turnouts, extending from the
southerly right of way line of Front
Avenue N.W. (80 feet wide) abutting
that portion of West 10th Street (50
feet wide) vacated in Volume 298,
Page 53 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records by Ordinance No. 769-92
passed June 8, 1992, southerly to the
northerly portion of West 10th Street
(50 feet wide) vacated in Volume
188, Page 10 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records by Ordinance No. 39263 passed March 11, 1963.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final adoption.
MOTION
By Council Member Pierce Scott,
seconded by Council Member Kelley
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Members Fannie
M. Lewis and Jay Westbrook, be and
is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
6:30 p.m. to meet at the Call of the
Chair.

55
Others: James Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 305-08.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of June,
2008 in the amount of $40,586.54,
attached and made a part of this
resolution, is received, approved and
ordered filed.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 306-08.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Stark Metals Sales, Inc., for an
estimated quantity of miscellaneous
sized steel plates, all items, for the
various divisions of City government, for the period of six months
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on May
7, 2008, under the authority of Section
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $117,198.00, is affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Finance is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of the contract of the
following:

July 2, 2008

Requisition No. 175986
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $15,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.

The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, July 2, 2008,
at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi
presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.

Resolution No. 307-08.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Cardinal Window Cleaning Co.,
Inc., for an estimated quantity of
window washing services, all items,
for the various divisions of City government, for the period of two years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on May
8, 2008, under the authority of Sec-

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measure will be on
its final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL

1431

The City Record

56
tion 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $69,910.00,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Finance is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition Nos.
182166 for $6,000.00
172254 for $2,900.00
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $8,900.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractor
by
Cardinal
Window
Cleaning Co., Inc. for the above-mentioned service is approved:
Bean & Bennett
(MBE) — $7,400.00 — 10.59%
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 308-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Charter
Section 112 and Section 523.21 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 (“C.O.”), Resolution No.
140-95, adopted February 27, 1995, as
amended by Resolution No. 152-95,
adopted March 1, 1995, Resolution

July 9, 2008

No. 79-00, adopted February 16, 2000,
and Resolution No. 669-05, adopted
November 30, 2005, fixing rates,
rules, and regulations relating to
the operation of the Division of
Cleveland
Public
Power
(“Division”), Department of Public Utilities, for electric service, is amended
by deleting that portion identified
as “Energy Adjustment Charge,” and
adding a new section entitled “Energy Adjustment Charge” which fixes
certain rates, rules, and regulations
relating to electric service, subject
to the approval of the Council of the
City of Cleveland, as follows:
“Energy Adjustment Charge”
(a) An additional incremental
charge for excess fuel and power
production
and
purchase
power
costs may be applied to the rates
prescribed in Sections 523.02 to
523.065 C.O. and any other rate
schedule as may be adopted by the
City.
(b) The incremental charge shall
be based on the fuel and purchase
power cost per kilowatt hour delivered
calculated
under
divisions
(c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c)(1) The fuel and purchase
power cost per kilowatt hour sold to
residential ratepayers shall be determined by dividing the sum of the
cost of the kilowatt hours purchased
from the Power Authority of the
State of New York and the average
cost of kilowatt hours purchased
from other sources needed to supply
the residential customers by the
total kilowatt hours distributed to
residential customers. For the period
ending December 31, 2010, the incremental charge calculated herein
shall be adjusted by subtracting 15
mils per kilowatt hour for residential customers who provide the Division of Cleveland Public Power with
a certificate of reduction of taxes
obtained under the Homestead Exemption
provisions
of
Sections
323.151
through
323.157
of
the
Revised Code, and 9.75 mils per kilowatt hour for all other residential

customers. Beginning on January 1,
2011, the incremental charge for all
residential
customers
shall
be
adjusted by subtracting 15 mils per
kilowatt hour.
(2) Except as provided in Section
523.048 C.O., the fuel and purchase
power cost per kilowatt hour sold to
all ratepayers, other than residential
ratepayers, during the twelve months
of the year, shall be determined by
dividing the sum of the total cost of
coal, oil, gas and purchase power by
the total kilowatt hours distributed,
except that the computation shall
exclude the cost of PASNY power
and the amount of PASNY power
allocable to kilowatt hours distributed, and shall exclude the costs of
all purchase power and kilowatt
hours from a specific source or
sources purchased by the Division
for distribution to ratepayers under
Sections 523.048 and 523.049 C.O. For
the period ending December 31, 2010,
the incremental charge calculated
herein shall be adjusted by subtracting 3.0 mils per kilowatt hour.
Beginning on January 1, 2011, such
incremental charge shall be adjusted
by subtracting 15 mils per kilowatt
hour.
(d) At the end of each month, the
Division of Cleveland Public Power
shall determine the excess fuel and
power charge during such month as
herein provided.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
140-95, adopted February 27, 1995, as
amended by Resolution No. 152-95,
adopted March 1, 1995, Resolution
No. 79-00, adopted February 16, 2000,
and Resolution No. 669-05, adopted
November 30, 2005, not expressly
amended by this resolution shall
remain unchanged and in full force
and effect.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.

Resolution No. 309-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that, under the authority of Charter Section 112
and Ordinance No. 65-08, passed March 31, 2008, the rates, rules, and regulations relating to the operation of the
Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for electric service, subject to the approval
of the Council of the City of Cleveland, are fixed as follows:
Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule
The following schedule is applicable to all new commercial customers who have not received Cleveland Public
Power service at their present location in the preceding two years, who enter into a written 10-year contract for
service anticipated to commence in 2010, who will be served by distribution capacity created as part of Cleveland
Public Power’s “Capacity Enhancement Program,” and whose peak demand is equal to or in excess of 150 kilowatts.
The availability of this rate schedule shall be limited to the first 100,000 kilowatts of peak demand contracted
under this rate schedule, or such lower total as may be determined by the Division.
The rates and charges contained in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this schedule shall be fixed for the duration
of the initial contract term. For all commercial installations during any month in which such installation has a
demand of less than 150 kilowatts, the appropriate standard rate schedule shall apply.
For all commercial installations during any month in which such installation has a demand of at least 150
kilowatts and less than 650 kilowatts:
(a)

Customer Charge per Month

(b)

Demand Charge

Kilowatt Per Month
For the first 200 kWd
For all excess kWd

$90.58
Summer

Winter

$14.269/kWd
$12.631/kWd

$13.326/kWd
$11.750/kWd

1432

July 9, 2008
(c)

57

Reactive Charge

Kilovar Demand Per Month
For all KVARD in excess of 30
(d)

The City Record

$0.456/KVARD

$0.456/KVARD

$0.06709/kWh
$0.05115/kWh
$0.04197/kWh

$0.06365/kWh
$0.04790/kWh
$0.04017/kWh

Kilowatt Hour Charge

Kilowatt Per Month
For the first 200 kWh/kWd
For the next 200 kWh/kWd
For all excess kWh

For all commercial installations during any month in which such installation has a demand equal to or greater
than 650 kilowatts:
(e)

Customer Charge per Month

(f)

Demand Charge

Kilowatt Per Month
For the first 500 kWd
For the next 500 kWd
For all excess kWd
(g)

Summer

Winter

$14.994/kWd
$13.905/kWd
$11.723/kWd

$14.994/kWd
$13.905/kWd
$11.723/kWd

$0.456/KVARD

$0.456/KVARD

$0.06480/kWh
$0.05100/kWh
$0.03552/kWh
$0.01362/kWh

$0.06480/kWh
$0.05100/kWh
$0.03552/kWh
$0.01362/kWh

Reactive Charge

Kilovar Demand Per Month
For all KVARD in excess of 30
(h)

$226.32

Kilowatt Hour Charge

Kilowatt Per Month
For the first 150 kWh/kWd
For the next 150 kWh/kWd
For the next 150 kWh/kWd
For all excess kWh

(i) Determination of Demand. The kilowatt demand shall be determined monthly by demand measurements,
and shall be the maximum thirty minute kilowatt demand during the month.
(j) Determination of Reactive Demand. The reactive billing demand shall be determined by multiplying the
monthly kilowatt demand by the ratio of the monthly lagging reactive kilovolt ampere hours to the monthly kilowatt hours. At the Division’s option, the reactive billing demand may be the metered reactive demand.
(k) Definition of Seasonal Rate. For the purpose of this rate schedule, the summer rate shall be in effect for
bills rendered during the months of June, July, August, and September. The winter rate shall be in effect for
bills rendered during the months of October, November, December, January, February, March, April, and May.
(l) Discount for Primary Metering. Where the electric energy is metered on the primary (2,300 volts or higher) side of the service transformers, a discount of two percent of the gross primary metered kilowatt hours may
be allowed.
(m) Substation Ownership Discount. A discount of thirty cents ($0.30) per kilowatt of demand billed may be
allowed when a customer owns, installs and maintains transformation and substation apparatus, thereby relieving the Division of these costs.
(n) Combined Billing. At the option of the Division, where plural connections supply the same customer in
the same general location, meter readings may be added for billing purposes and the combined demand shall be
the coincident demand or the sum of the undiversified demands.
(o)
Transmission, Taxes, and Other Charges. Customers under this schedule shall be charged for increases
incurred after the adoption of this schedule for transmission service, costs or charges imposed by federal or state
law, regulatory authorities, regional transmission operators, or reliability authorities/organizations, and taxes of
any kind, however measured, paid directly or indirectly by the City. The kWh tax prescribed by Section 5727 of
the Ohio Revised Code, or any successor tax, shall be charged to the same extent as such tax is applied to customers under the standard CPP rate schedules.
Be it further resolved that the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into service agreements substantially in the following form:
Customer Agreement
This Agreement is made and entered into by and between the City of Cleveland, Ohio (“the City”), acting by
and through its Director of Public Utilities or his authorized representative and (“Consumer”):
In consideration of the agreements, promises, and undertakings herein set forth, the City, for itself, its successors and assigns and the Consumer for itself, its heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, do
hereby mutually agree as follows:
Article 1: The City will supply required 60 cycle, __/__ volts, _____ phase, ____ wire, alternating current, from
its electric system to the Consumer’s premises located at ___________________________.
Article 2: The Consumer states that the maximum demand or capacity required from the City’s electric system
is __ kWd and in the event that said maximum demand is changed, the Consumer will promptly notify the City
in writing of the increase or decrease in required capacity.
Article 3: For the electric service furnished under this Agreement, the Consumer agrees to pay the City in accordance with the Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule established by the City, the rates, terms, and conditions of which are contained in Attachment 1. Additional terms and conditions of service and other charges are

1433

The City Record

58

July 9, 2008

contained in the Codified Ordinances and may be amended from time to time by the City with approval by City
Council and applied to Consumer to the same extent as applied to customers in the CPP standard rate classes.
Said terms and conditions and other charges are hereby made a part of this Agreement the same as if stated
herein.
Article 4: The Consumer agrees to comply with all the rules and regulations as may be established by the City,
all of which are by reference made a part of this Agreement.
Article 5: The City will furnish the equipment necessary to bring electric service to the Consumer which shall
remain the property of the City and the City shall be permitted to remove the same at the termination of this
Agreement.
Article 6: The Consumer agrees that the City shall have the convenient and practical access, location and rightof-way to and upon the Consumer’s property as may be necessary to properly furnish and maintain the electric
equipment required to serve the Consumer.
Article 7: The Consumer agrees to pay the City monthly for electric service supplied.
Article 8: The City shall not be liable to the Consumer for any loss, injury, or damage resulting from the Consumer’s use of this electric service, the Consumer’s connection to the City’s system, interruption of service, consequential damage, or any other cause reasonably beyond the City’s control.
Article 9: This Agreement shall be in force beginning on the date hereof and continuing for an initial term of
ten (10) years from the date electric service is initially provided. This Agreement shall continue in force thereafter at the rates and charges in the applicable standard rate schedule until canceled by thirty (30) days written notice given by either party. This contract may be extended by written agreement for five (5) additional
years. The rate in effect during such five-year renewal period shall be the amount Consumer would have paid
each year under the then-current standard tariff of the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (“CEI”), less
approximately the following discounts:
Year
Year
Year
Year
Year

1
2
3
4
5

5%
4%
3%
2%
1%

The actual discounts will vary depending on the characteristics of the Consumer’s usage.
The Consumer shall not contract with any other electric utility for electric service to be supplied during the
term of this Agreement.
Article 10: The Consumer agrees that Consumer shall be charged for increases incurred after the City’s adoption of the Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule for transmission service, costs or charges imposed by
federal or state law, regulatory authorities, regional transmission operators, or reliability authorities/ organizations, and taxes of any kind, however measured, paid directly or indirectly by the City. The kWh tax prescribed
by Section 5727 of the Ohio Revised Code, or any successor tax, shall be charged to the same extent as such tax
is applied to customers under the standard CPP rate schedules.
Article 11: The Consumer agrees that in the event the customer discontinues its service with the City in violation
of this Agreement the Consumer will be liable to repay CPP the savings that resulted from the discount, all
installation costs, and all damages suffered by the City. The savings to be repaid by Consumer shall be the
difference between the amount the Consumer would have paid under the applicable CEI standard tariff and the
amount Consumer paid under this Agreement.
Article 12: The Consumer agrees to bear the costs of any underground facilities necessary to serve Consumer’s
premises.
Article 13: This Agreement is contingent upon: 1) the passage of legislation establishing the Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule and authorizing the financing and construction of electric facilities necessary to
serve Consumer; 2) the subscription of sufficient customers under the Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule to make it economically feasible, in the Division’s sole judgment, to proceed with the construction of the
planned facilities; and 3) the construction of facilities necessary to serve Consumer.
Article 14: Service shall begin upon completion of facilities by the Division of Cleveland Public Power with a
target date of January 1, 2010. City will endeavor to provide Consumer with ninety (90) days’ notice of the commencement of service.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, said parties have hereunto set their hands this _____ Day of ________________, 200__.
Company Name
Contact Address

City of Cleveland
Department of Public Utilities
Division of Cleveland Public Power

By: _______________________________________

Approved: ___________________________
Commissioner

Title: _____________________________________
Date: _____________________________________

Date: ________________________________

The legal form and correctness of this
instrument is approved by:

______________________________________

___________________________________________
Assistant Director of Law

Director of Public Utilities
Date:_________________________________

Date:______________________________________

Contract No.: ________________________

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Acting Director Withers, Directors Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.

1434

July 9, 2008
Resolution No. 310-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Charter
Section 112 and Ordinance No. 68208, passed June 2, 2008, the rates,
rules, and regulations relating to
the operation of the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for electric service, subject to the approval of the
Council of the City of Cleveland, are
fixed as follows:
That the rate to be charged by
Cleveland Public Power (CPP) for
street
lighting
service
supplied
through street lights acquired by
CPP from The Cleveland Electric
Illuminating Company (CEI) under
the authority of Ordinance No. 192507, passed December 10, 2007, shall
be determined, for the first eight (8)
years following the transfer date, by
reference to the street lighting rates
approved by the Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio (PUCO), Original Sheet No. 43, 8th Revised, effective January 11, 2008, and shall be
the sum of the CEI Distribution
Charge (which shall not be increased by CPP), the CEI Generation Charge (which shall be subject
to any changes approved by the
PUCO), and any applicable CEI riders, charges, or discounts charged or
credited to CPP. Beginning eight (8)
years after the transfer date, CPP
shall charge the then-current CPP
standard street lighting rate for the
transferred street lighting facilities.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 311-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Huron Lime, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of quicklime,
item 1A, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year starting upon the
later of execution of the contract or
the day following expiration of the
currently effective contract for the
goods or services, received on May
14, 2008 under the authority of Section 129.24 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $50,625.00
(0%), is affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a requirement
contract for the commodities, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 182174
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $25,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors

The City Record

59

Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 312-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of The Great Lakes Construction Co. for the public improvement of the Baldwin Water WorksFairmount Pump Station Rehabilitation Project, including a $2,187,154.70
contingency allowance, all items, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, received on May
9, 2008, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1871-07, passed February
25, 2008, upon a gross price for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $24,058,701.70, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
a contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractors by The
Great Lakes Construction Co. for the
abovementioned public improvement
is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Alpha-Omega Chemical
Co. (MBE)

$

140,000.00
0.58%

Powermike & Co.
(MBE)

$

880,000.00
3.66%

K.L.E. Construction
(MBE)

$

66,000.00
0.27%

R-Cap Security (MBE)

$

158,000.00
0.66%

Pro Construction (MBE) $

760,000.00
3.16%

Dmytryka Jacobs
Engineers, Inc.
(MBE)

$1,347,000.00
5.60%

US Communications and
Electric Inc. (FBE)
$
Interstate Safety &
Service Co., Inc. (FBE) $
Cook Paving &
Construction Co., Inc.
Cosmos Industrial
Services, Inc.
Commercial Tile &
Stone, Inc.

$

30,000.00
0.12%
165,000.00
0.69%
117,000.00
0.49%

$1,200,000.00
4.99%
$

10,000.00
0.04%

Lake Erie Electric

$3,400,000.00
14.13%

New Comer Concrete

$

330,000.00
1.37%

Western Reserve

$

190,000.00
0.79%

1435

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 313-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Cambridge Brass for an
estimated quantity of service fittings & service valves, items 2-5, 1012, 14-32, 47, 49, 51, and 52, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two
years, starting upon the later of execution of the contract or the day following expiration of the currently
effective contract for the goods or
services, received on April 17, 2008
under the authority of Section 129.25
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $142,464.50 (Net 30 Days),
is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 182149
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $35,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 314-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Utility Service & Supply,
Inc. for an estimated quantity of service fittings & service valves, items
1, 13, 40-46, 48, 50, and 53-55, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of two
years, starting upon the later of execution of the contract or the day following expiration of the currently
effective contract for the goods or
services, received on April 17, 2008
under the authority of Section 129.25
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to $64,252.75 (0%), is affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Public Utilities is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the contract of the
following:

60
Requisition No. 182146
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $15,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 315-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Ferguson Enterprises,
Inc., d.b.a. Ferguson Waterworks for
an estimated quantity of service fittings & service valves, items 33-39,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period
of two years, starting upon the later
of execution of the contract or the
day following expiration of the currently effective contract for the
goods or services, received on April
17, 2008 under the authority of Section 129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $26,301.00
(0%, Net 30 Days), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 182148
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $8,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 316-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of HD Supply Waterworks,
Ltd. for an estimated quantity of
service fittings & service valves,
items 6-9, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years, starting upon
the later of execution of the contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods or services, received
on April 17, 2008 under the authority of Section 129.25 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to $41,986.00

The City Record

July 9, 2008

(Net 30 Days), is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of the contract of the following:

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.

Requisition No. 182147
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $10,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.

Resolution No. 319-08.
By Director Flask.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on June 18, 2008 for Labor
and Materials necessary to serviceand maintain elevators for the Division of Police, Department of Public
Safety, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1033-07, passed by
Council of the City of Cleveland on
November 26, 2007, are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.

Resolution No. 317-08.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on April 24, 2008
for the purchase of one large format
printer/scanning system, for the
Division of Engineering & Construction, Department of Public Service for all items under the authority of Ordinance No. 901-07, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland on June 11, 2007 are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 318-08.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Avery Dennison Corporation for purchase of vinyl sheeting
used for the maintenance of traffic
control signage, Items 1, 2, 3, 4, and
5, for the Division of Traffic Engineering, Department of Public Service, for the period of “two (2)
years” beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
April 16, 2008, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 639-07, passed June 11,
2007, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$139,300, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into a requirement
contract for such goods which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of the contract
of the following:
Requisition No. 180532
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $30,000.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the supplier
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.

1436

Resolution No. 320-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 125-18-006, 125-18009, 125-18-016, 125-18-018, 125-18-019,
125-18-020, 125-18-032, 125-18-036, 12518-039, 125-19-004, 125-19-006, 125-19020, 125-19-022, 125-19-033, 125-19-038,
127-01-057 and 127-01-060, located at
scattered
sites
under
the
Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 772-08
passed June 9, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Cuyahoga Metropolitan
Housing Authority has proposed to
the City to purchase and develop the
parcels for new construction; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
772-08 passed June 9, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel Nos. 125-18-006, 125-18-009, 12518-016, 125-18-018, 125-18-019, 125-18020, 125-18-032, 125-18-036, 125-18-039,
125-19-004, 125-19-006, 125-19-020, 12519-022, 125-19-033, 125-19-038, 127-01057 and 127-01-060, as described in
the Ordinance according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair
market value of the parcels for uses
according to the Land Reutilization
Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,

July 9, 2008
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 321-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter
57.22 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 017-24-052, located
at West 97th Street under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 706-08
passed June 9, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Adrian Halcomb has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
706-08 passed June 9, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Adrian Halcomb
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 017-24-052, as
described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$400.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 322-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 118-24-015, located
at Central Avenue under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 887-08
passed June 9, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas,
Good
Hope
Baptist
Church has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
parking lot; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
887-08 passed June 9, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Good Hope Bap-

The City Record
tist Church for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 11824-015, as described in the Ordinance
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 323-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 118-27-022, located
at Cedar Avenue under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 890-08
passed June 9, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Dionne Thomas Carmichael has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
parking lot; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
890-08 passed June 9, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Dionne Thomas
Carmichael for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 11827-022, as described in the Ordinance
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$1,500.00, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair
market value of the parcel for uses
according to the Land Reutilization
Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 324-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 134-15-042, 134-15043, 134-15-044 and 134-15-057, located
at Ella Avenue under the Land
Reutilization Program; and

1437

61
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1614-07
passed May 19, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Martin E. Liptak has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcels for yard expansion; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1614-07 passed May 19, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Martin E. Liptak
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 134-15-042, 134-15043, 134-15-044 and 134-15-057, as
described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcels shall be
$1.00 each, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair
market value of the parcels for uses
according to the Land Reutilization
Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 325-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 016-02-039, located
at Storer Avenue under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 603-08
passed June 9, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, F.S. Metals, Inc. has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for storage area;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that under the authority of Ordinance No. 603-08 passed June 9,
2008, by the Cleveland City Council,
the Mayor is authorized to execute
an official deed for and on behalf
of the City of Cleveland with F.S.
Metals, Inc. for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No.
016-02-039, as described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$10,500.00, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair
market value of the parcel for uses
according to the Land Reutilization
Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors

62
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 326-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 124-03-013, located
at Scoville Avenue under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 888-08
passed June 9, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Shiloh Baptist Church
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel for parking
lot; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
888-08 passed June 9, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Shiloh Baptist
Church for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 124-03-013,
as
described
in
the
Ordinance
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$100.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 327-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land
Reutilization
Program
according to the provisions of Chapter
5722 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 006-02-130, located
at 2095 West 81st Street under the
Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 557-08
passed June 9, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity has proposed to
the City to purchase and develop the
parcel for new construction; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
557-08 passed June 9, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official

The City Record
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Greater Cleveland
Habitat for Humanity for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel No. 006-02-130, as described in the
Ordinance according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the fair market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 328-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 109-04-051, located
at Pierpont Avenue under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 773-08
passed June 9, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Kimberly Y. Dowdell
has proposed to the City to purchase
and develop the parcel for yard
expansion; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
773-08 passed June 9, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Kimberly Y. Dowdell for the sale and development of
Permanent Parcel No. 109-04-051, as
described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$500.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 329-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 019-15-029 and
019-15-030, located at Bellaire Road

1438

July 9, 2008
under the Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 819-08
passed June 9, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Quan AM Temple of
Vietnamese B has proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcels for parking; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
819-08 passed June 9, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Quan AM Temple
of Vietnamese B for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
Nos. 019-15-029 and 019-15-030, as
described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair
market value of the parcels for uses
according to the Land Reutilization
Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
Resolution No. 330-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according to the provisions of Chapter
5722 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 007-19-059 located at Wade Avenue in Ward 14; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Charles E. Mangus and
Truly H. Mangus, abutting/adjacent
landowners, have proposed to the
City to purchase and develop the
parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 14 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of the
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when direct-

The City Record

July 9, 2008
ed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with Charles E. Mangus
and Truly H. Mangus for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel No. 007-19-059 located at Wade
Avenue, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner
as best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Nichols.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JULY 21, 2008
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 08-105: Appeal of La
Copa Sports Bar, 2704 Clark Avenue (Ward 14)
Gerald Zahler, owner, and Crucita
Santini Ortiz, on behalf of La Copa
Sports Bar, tenant, appeal under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the
Cleveland City Charter and Section

329.02(d) of the Codified Ordinances
from the revocation of a Coin Operated Pool Table License, No. 100,
and a Music Permit, No. 203, issued
by the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses, pursuant to the request of the Director of the Cleveland Public Safety Department that
the permits be rescinded.
Calendar No. 08-126: Appeal of James
Horn, Hack License Suspension
James Horn appeal under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the
Cleveland City Charter from the suspension of a City of Cleveland Hack
License that was scheduled to begin
June 16, 2008 and continue through
June 23, 2008, as issued by the Commissioner
of
Assessments
and
Licenses for violation of Section A3(f), using language offensive to
the passenger, as stated in the
Rules and Regulations for Taxicab
Drivers and the provisions of Section 443.012 of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 08-127: 5823 Detroit
Avenue (Ward 17)
Cheryl Lessin and Mack Bailey,
owners, appeal to erect a 12' x 20'
one-story frame garage in the southwest corner of a 31.50' x 81.39' parcel located in a Semi-Industry District on the south side of Detroit
Avenue at 5823 Detroit Avenue; and
the provisions for accessory uses in
residence
districts
requires
that
there must be a minimum of 18 inches from all property lines and at
least 10 feet from any main building on an adjoining lot in a Residence District, according to Section
337.23 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 08-128: 11010-22 Superior
Avenue (Ward 9)
Maher Suleiman, owner, appeals to
construct a parking lot on a 124' x
104.52' parcel located in a MultiFamily District on the south side of
Superior Avenue at 11010-22 Superior Avenue; and the proposed parking lot is subject to the provisions
of Section 349.13(c) and requires the
Board of Zoning Appeals approval,
as stated in the Off-Street Parking
and Loading Requirements of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 08-129: 684 East 152nd
Street (Ward 10)
Brett Greer, owner, appeals to install approximately 200 lineal feet
of 5 foot 10 inch high ornamental
metal and 7 foot high masonry pier
fence, proposed to be on consolidated parcels located in a General Retail Business District on the northwest corner of East 152nd Street and
Cardinal Avenue at 684 East 152nd
Street; where fences in actual front
and side street yards shall not
exceed 4 feet in height and the proposed fences are located within the
established 10 foot front and side
street yard building line setback,
contrary to Section 358.05(a)(2) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 08-130: 4305 State Road
(Ward 15)
John Zajac, owner, appeals to
install 70 linear feet of 6 foot high
board on board fence and 46 linear
feet of 5 foot high ornamental fence,
seventy-five percent opacity with

1439

63
three columns and guard rail, on a
48' x 120' vacant corner parcel
located in a General Retail Business
District on the northeast corner of
State Road and Searsdale Avenue at
4305 State Road; where fences in
non-residential districts shall not
exceed a 4 foot height in an actual
front yard and a 5 foot high ornamental fence is proposed, contrary
to Section 358.05(a)(2) of the Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, JULY 7, 2008
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, July 7,
2008, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 08-117: 3020 West 105th
Street
Khambong Vongsouvanh appealed
to erect a 7' x 20' wooden deck at
the rear of a one family dwelling in
a Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 08-119: 2800 Clinton
Avenue
Rock Salt, Inc., owner, and Marc
Lynn, tenant, appealed to change
and expand use by adding entertainment to a tavern/restaurant in a
Semi-Industry District; subject to
conditions.
Calendar No. 08-120: 668 Euclid Avenue
668 Atrium, owner, and K&D Development appealed to change the
use of an eight-story office building
to retail and dwelling units in an
E5 General Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 07-222: 2856 Woodhill
Road
Dennis Cleaning Company LLC,
owner, and Starr Dickson, tenant,
appealed to change use from a
lounge to a day care center in a
Multi-Family District; subject to conditions.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 08-90: 9310 Amesbury
Avenue
Amesbury-Rosalind
Estates
appealed to install a 6 foot high chain
link fence in the actual front yard
of an acreage parcel in a Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 08-115: Appeal of Ace
Taxi Service
Ace Taxi Service appealed from a
ruling
by
the
Commissioner
of
Assessments and Licenses to assess
a fine for violation of Section C-1(c)
in the Rules and Regulations for
Taxicab Drivers.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
None.

The City Record

64
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

None.
For All Departments
The following appeal was Postponed:
Calendar No. 08-116: 2011 West 20th
Street postponed to July 21, 2008.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on June 30, 2008 were
adopted and approved on July 7,
2008.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 08-103: 11521-25 Clifton
Boulevard
Forest & Associates appealed to
build an addition to an existing gas
station and store in a Local Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 08-118: 17007 Lorain
Avenue
Sandra Papcum, owner, and David
Renick, tenant, appealed to change/expand use by adding entertainment to
an existing tavern/restaurant and
adding front and rear patios to a
one-story building in as Local Retail
Business District; subject to condition.
The following appeal was Denied:
None
The following appeal dismissed
by the Board on June 30, 2008 was
reinstated.
Calendar No. 08-114: 2906 Natchez
Avenue
Tomas Tindira appealed to erect
a 10' x 15' one-story frame garage
in a B1 Two-Family District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
_____________
Notice of Public Meeting
of the City of Cleveland
Records Commission
Notice is hereby given in accordance with Chapter 149 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Chapter 167 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland,
that
the
Cleveland
Records Commission will hold a public meeting on Thursday, July 10,
2008 at 11:00 am in Room 106 City
Hall, 601 Lakeside Avenue, Clevelamd, Ohio for the purpose of considering records retention and disposal requests.
_____
July 2, 2008 and July 9, 2008

Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, JULY 23, 2008
File No. 148-08 — Purchase Recreation Equipment and Equipment
Maintenance Agreement (Re-Bid),
for the Division of Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 294-08, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, February 27, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY,
JULY 10, 2008 AT 10:00 A.M., THE
DIVISION
OF
RECREATION,
ROOM 8, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERRENCE.
July 2, 2008 and July 9, 2008
FRIDAY, JULY 25, 2008
File No. 149-08 — Purchase of Various Types of Safety Equipment
Required for OSHA/PERRP Compliance, for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Cleveland Pub-

1440

July 9, 2008
lic Power and Water, Department
of Public Utilities, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 346-08, passed
by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, April 14, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
THURSDAY, JULY 10, 2008 AT
10:00 A.M., THE CARL B. SOKES,
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1ST FLOOR AUDITORIUM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 150-08 — Ductile Iron Pipe
and Fittings, for the Division of
Water,
Department
of
Public
Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.25 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
THURSDAY, JULY 10, 2008 AT
10:30 A.M., THE DIVISION OF
WATER,
DISTRIBUTION
AND
MAINTENANCE, PIPE REPAIR
CONFERENCE ROOM, 4600 HARVARD
AVENUE,
NEWBURGH
HEIGHTS, OHIO 44105.
File No. 151-08 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Repair and
Maintain T.V. Inspection, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 497-08, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 2,
2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
TUESDAY, JULY 15, 2008 AT 10:00
A.M., THE DIVISION OF WATER
POLLUTION
CONTROL,
12302
KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44108.
July 2, 2008 and July 9, 2008
THURSDAY, JULY 31, 2008
File No. 152-08 — Snow and Ice Removal at Health Centers, for the
Division of Health Administration,
Department of Public Health, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 49708, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 2, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, JULY 18, 2008 AT 1:00 P.M.,
THE
McCAFFERTY
HEALTH
CENTER, 4242 LORAIN AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
July 2, 2008 and July 9, 2008
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 6, 2008
File No. 153-08 — Hydrofluosilicic
Acid, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 163092, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, September 21,
1992.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
WEDNESDAY, JULY 16, 2008 AT
2:00 P.M., THE CARL B. STOKES,
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
July 2, 2008 and July 9, 2008

July 9, 2008
WEDNESDAY, JULY 23, 2008
File No. 153-08 — Purchase Recreation Equipment and Equipment
Maintenance Agreement for John
F. Kennedy Recreation Center, for
the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 895-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 4, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY,
JULY 18, 2008 AT 10:00 A.M., THE
DIVISION
OF
RECREATION,
ROOM 8, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERRENCE.
File No. 155-08 — Gunning Park
Site Improvements, for the Division of Research, Planning and
Development, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance Nos. 194007 and 451-08, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 10, 2007 and June 9,
2008.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER (NO
COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH
AND NO CREDIT CARDS WILL
BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
THURSDAY, JULY 17, 2008 AT
10:00 A.M., THE BURKE LAKEFRONT AIRPORT, FIRST FLOOR
CONFERENCE ROOM, 1501 NORTH
MARGINAL ROAD, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
July 9, 2008 and July 16, 2008
THURSDAY, JULY 24, 2008
File No. 156-08 — Tree Removal, for
the Division of Park Maintenance
and Properties, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
497-08, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 2,
2008.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY,
JULY 18, 2008 AT 10:00 A.M., THE
ROCKEFELLER GREENHOUSE,
750 EAST 88TH STREET, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERRENCE.
File No. 157-08 — Ash Borer Tree
Planting, for the Division of Park
Maintenance and Properties, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 497-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 2, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY,
JULY 18, 2008 AT 10:00 A.M., THE

The City Record
ROCKEFELLER GREENHOUSE,
750 EAST 88TH STREET, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERRENCE.
File No. 158-08 — Citywide Tree
Planting Initiative, for the Division of Park Maintenance and
Properties, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 49708, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 2, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY,
JULY 18, 2008 AT 10:00 A.M., THE
ROCKEFELLER GREENHOUSE,
750 EAST 88TH STREET, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERRENCE.
July 9, 2008 and July 16, 2008

65
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 554-08.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (By Request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
Front Avenue N.W., a portion of Old
River Road N.W., a portion of Main
Avenue N.W., and a portion of West
10th Street.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of Front Avenue N.W., a portion of Old River Road N.W., a portion of Main Avenue N.W., and a
portion of West 10th Street, as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:

THURSDAY, JULY 31, 2008
File No. 154-08 — Purchase of Vehicle Fire Protection System Kits,
for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 497-08,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 2, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, JULY 18, 2008 AT 10:00 A.M.,
THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
SAFETY, ROOM 230, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
July 9, 2008 and July 16, 2008
FRIDAY, AUGUST 1, 2008
File No. 159-08 — Detroit Avenue
Streetscape Project from West
73rd Street to West 58th Street,
for the Division of Engineering
and Construction, Department of
Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance Nos. 1530-02, 990-03 and
701-05, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, December 3,
2002, June 10, 2003 and June 6,
2005, respectively.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN THE
FORM OF A CASHIER’S CHECK
AND/OR MONEY ORDER (NO
COMPANY CHECKS, NO CASH
AND NO CREDIT CARDS WILL
BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY,
JULY 25, 2008 AT 10:00 A.M., THE
CITY
HALL,
ROOM
518,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
ODOT PREQUALIFICATION IS REQUIRED TO PARTICIPATE.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERRENCE.
July 9, 2008 and July 16, 2008

1441

FRONT AVENUE N.W.
Being all that portion of Front
Avenue N.W. (80 feet wide) extending westerly from the northerly prolongation of the westerly line of
Block “E” of the R. Moodie W9 Ltd.
Consolidation plat as recorded in
Volume 319, Page 23 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records to the easterly
line of the Cuyahoga River.
OLD RIVER ROAD N.W.
Being all that part of Old River
Road N.W. (66 feet wide) (formerly
W. 11th Street) extending Southeasterly from the Southerly line of Front
Avenue N.W. (80 feet wide) to the
Southeasterly line of the Main Avenue Bridge (100 feet wide).
MAIN AVENUE N.W.
Being all that portion of Main
Avenue N.W. (width varies) extending westerly from the westerly right
of way line of West 9th Street (66
feet wide) to the northeasterly dock
line of the Cuyahoga River, as
established
by
Ordinance
312-83,
passed March 4, 1901.
WEST 10th STREET
Being all that remaining portion
of West 10th Street (50 feet wide)
and its turnouts, extending from the
southerly right of way line of Front
Avenue N.W. (80 feet wide) abutting
that portion of West 10th Street (50
feet wide) vacated in Volume 298,
Page 53 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records by Ordinance No. 769-92
passed June 8, 1992, southerly to the
northerly portion of West 10th Street
(50 feet wide) vacated in Volume
188, Page 10 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records by Ordinance No. 39263 passed March 11, 1963.
Legal Description approved by Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

66
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Res. No. 1017-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Zone and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution acknowledging that the City of Cleveland,
Division of Water, provides water
service to 1121 East 260th Street,
Euclid, Ohio.
Whereas,
Ray
Fogg
Building
Methods, Inc. (“Ray Fogg”) has submitted a Job Ready Sites application
to request assistance to develop the
PMX Euclid site, located at 1121
East 260th Street in Euclid, Ohio;
and
Whereas, Ray Fogg has requested
the City to acknowledge that they
provide water service to the development
site
so
that
they
can
strengthen their Job Ready Sites’
application; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water, acknowledges that it provides water service
to 1121 East 260th Street, Euclid,
Ohio, meeting at least the minimum
capacity required for certification
under the Ohio Job Ready Sites Program.
Section 2. That the Mayor of the
City of Cleveland and this Council
support the development at 1121
East 260th Street, Euclid, Ohio, by
Ray Fogg.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to Mr. Michael J.
Novachek, PE, Ray Fogg Building
Methods, Inc., 981 Keynote Circle,
Cleveland, Ohio 44131.
Section 4. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Res. No. 1018-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Zone and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution acknowledging that the City of Cleveland,
Division of Water, provides water
service to 23555 Euclid Avenue,
Euclid, Ohio.
Whereas,
HBP
Euclid
Corp
(“HBP”) has submitted a Job Ready
Sites application to request assistance to develop the HBP Euclid
Corp. Redevelopment Project site,
located at 23555 Euclid Avenue,
Euclid, Ohio; and

The City Record
Whereas, HBP has requested the
City to acknowledge that they provide water service to the development site so that they can strengthen their Job Ready Sites’ application; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water, acknowledges that it provides water service
to 23555 Euclid Avenue, Euclid,
Ohio, meeting at least the minimum
capacity required for certification
under the Ohio Job Ready Sites Program.
Section 2. That the Mayor of the
City of Cleveland and this Council
support the development at 23555
Euclid Avenue, Euclid, Ohio, by
HBP.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to Carol Smith, Ohio
Realty Advisors, LLC, 3623 Brecksville Road, Richfield, Ohio 44286.
Section 4. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Res. No. 1019-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Zone and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution acknowledging that the City of Cleveland,
Division of Water, provides water
service to Strongsville Business &
Technology Park (Parcel D) on
Foltz Parkway in Strongsville, Ohio.
Whereas,
City
of
Strongsville
(“Strongsville”) has submitted a Job
Ready Sites application to request
assistance to develop the Strongsville Business & Technology Park
(Parcel D), located at on Foltz
Parkway in Strongsville, Ohio; and
Whereas,
Strongsville
has
requested the City to acknowledge
that they provide water service to
the development site so that they
can strengthen their Job Ready
Sites’ application; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water, acknowledges that it provides water service
to the Strongsville Business & Technology Park (Parcel D) site located
at on Foltz Parkway in Strongsville,
Ohio, meeting at least the minimum
capacity required for certification
under the Ohio Job Ready Sites Program.

1442

July 9, 2008
Section 2. That the Mayor of the
City of Cleveland and this Council
support the development at the
Strongsville Business & Technology
Park (Parcel D), located at on Foltz
Parkway in Strongsville, Ohio by
Strongsville.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to Mr. Eugene Magocky, Director of Economic Development, City of Strongsville, 16099
Foltz Parkway, Strongsville, Ohio
44149.
Section 4. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Res. No. 1020-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Zone and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution acknowledging that the City of Cleveland,
Division of Water, provides water
service and Division of Water Pollution Control, provides storm, sanitary and industrial waste sewer service to Independence and Pershing
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas,
City
of
Cleveland
(“City”) has submitted a Job Ready
Sites application to request assistance to develop the Cuyahoga Valley Industrial Center, located at
Independence and Pershing Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio; and
Whereas, the City acknowledges
that it provides water service to the
development site so to strengthen
its Job Ready Sites’ application; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water, acknowledges that it provides water service
to
Independence
and
Pershing
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, meeting at
least the minimum capacity required
for certification under the Ohio Job
Ready Sites Program.
Section 2. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water Pollution
Control, acknowledges that it provides storm, sanitary and industrial
waste sewer service to Independence and Pershing Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio, meeting at least the minimum capacity required for certification under the Ohio Job Ready
Sites Program.
Section 3. That the Mayor of the
City of Cleveland and this Council
support the development at Independence
and
Pershing
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio, by the City.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to the Director of
Economic Development for the City
of Cleveland.

July 9, 2008
Section 5. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Res. No. 1021-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Zone and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency resolution acknowledging that the City of Cleveland,
Division of Water, provides water
service and Division of Water Pollution Control, provides storm, sanitary and industrial waste sewer service to 842 East 79th Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, 79th Street Associates,
LLC (“79th Street Associates”) has
submitted a Job Ready Sites application to request assistance to develop the Shoreway Industrial Park,
located at 842 East 79th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio; and
Whereas, 79th Street Associates
has requested the City to acknowledge that they provide water service
to the development site so that they
can strengthen their Job Ready
Sites’ application; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water, acknowledges that it provides water service
to 842 East 79h Street, Cleveland,
Ohio, meeting at least the minimum
capacity required for certification
under the Ohio Job Ready Sites Program.
Section 2. That the City of Cleveland, Division of Water Pollution
Control, acknowledges that it provides storm, sanitary and industrial
waste sewer service to 842 East 79th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio, meeting at
least the minimum capacity required
for certification under the Ohio Job
Ready Sites Program.
Section 3. That the Mayor of the
City of Cleveland and this Council
support the development at 842 East
79th Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to Mitchell C. Schneider, President, First Interstate, 25333
Cedar Road, Suite 300, Lyndhurst,
Ohio 44124-3788.
Section 5. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it received the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

The City Record
Res. No. 1030-08.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 3071 East
65th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D2, D2X, D3 and D3A Liquor
Permit, Permit No. 4199709 owned by
James Jackson, DBA Vince’s Café,
3071 East 65th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44127; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based upon substantial legal grounds
within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1031-08.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 6101
Fleet Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

1443

67
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6X
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 0084408
owned by Akita, Inc., DBA The
Fleet Avenue Bar, 6101 Fleet Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1032-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of liquor license
of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 727
Bolivar Road and Patio.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
liquor license of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit from 1624 Superior Avenue,
Inc., 1724 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
6549160 to 1624 Superior Avenue, Inc.,
727 Bolivar Road and Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
65491600001; and

68
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of liquor license of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from 1624 Superior
Avenue, Inc., 1724 Superior Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 6549160 to 1624 Superior
Avenue, Inc., 727 Bolivar Road and
Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number
65491600001and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1033-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 1311
East 49th Street.

The City Record
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6X
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 7095204
owned by Demetrius Pryor, DBA
Bull Shooters, 1311 East 49th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1034-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 2325 Elm Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal

1444

July 9, 2008
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code, objections to renewal
of liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit,
Permit Nos. 5870816, 5870816-0003,
5870816-0004 owned by Metropolis
Night Club, Inc., DBA Metropolis,
2325 Elm Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44113; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of
Council be and she is hereby directed to transmit two certified copies
of this resolution, together with
two copies of a letter of objection
and two copies of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in
Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a
statement by the Director of Law
that, in the Director’s opinion, that
the objection is based upon substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A)
of Section 4303.292 of the Revised
Code to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1035-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 3232
Lakeside Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor per-

July 9, 2008
mit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6
Liquor Permit, Permit No. 2779680
owned
by
Flextron,
LLC,
DBA
Gotcha Inn, 3232 Lakeside Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1036-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of liquor license
of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to
3009 Payne Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
liquor license of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit from Little Kings Lounge,
Inc., DBA Little Kings Lounge, 3061
Payne Avenue, 1st floor and patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 52379270001 to Little Kings
Lounge, Inc., DBA Little Kings
Lounge, 3009 Payne Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
52379270002; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and

The City Record
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the transfer of
liquor license of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit from Little Kings Lounge,
Inc., DBA Little Kings Lounge, 3061
Payne Avenue, 1st floor and patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent
Number 52379270001 to Little Kings
Lounge, Inc., DBA Little Kings
Lounge, 3009 Payne Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
52379270002; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1037-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 4059 St. Clair
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

1445

69
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code, objections to renewal
of liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 8177655 owned by Simply Ours,
LLC, DBA On the Rocks Lounge, 4059
St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44103; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based
upon
substantial
legal
grounds within the meaning and
intent of division (A) of Section
4303.292 of the Revised Code to the
Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1038-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 6702
St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

70
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 8988551 owned by
Topcat, LLC, DBA Topcats Pub &
Grill, 6702 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44103; and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based upon substantial legal grounds
within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of
the Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1039-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 2553 Superior Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0898467-1104 owned by BP Products of
North America, Inc., DBA Site #1104,
2553 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44114; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1040-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3146 West 14th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,

1446

July 9, 2008
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
7462760 owned by Rodeo Bar & Grill,
Inc., DBA Rodeo Bar & Grill, 3146
West 14th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44109; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1041-08.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 1163 East 123rd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 6549205 owned by 123 Food Mart,
Inc., DBA USA Food Mart, 1163 East
123rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44108;
and requests the Director of Liquor

July 9, 2008
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1042-08.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 453 Dundee Drive.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 5380275 owned by M & M Allan,
Inc., DBA Central Fox Market, 453
Dundee Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44108;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies

The City Record
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1043-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 5110 Clark Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
9161035-0021 owned by United Petroleum Marketing, LLC, Thomas E.
Pratt Rcvr., DBA UPM #207, 5110
Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.

1447

71
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1044-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3101 Scranton
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
23943930005 owned by Eaman, Inc.,
DBA Gas USA, 3101 Scranton Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

72
Res. No. 1045-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 Liquor
Permit at 3238 West 44th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0010247 owned by A & I, Inc., DBA
Rite Choice Market, 3238 West 44th
Street, 1st floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44109;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1046-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3
and D3A Liquor Permit at 2132 West
25th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and

The City Record
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code, objections to renewal
of liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit,
Permit No. 9956778 owned by ZMDS
Entertainment,
Inc.,
DBA
Envy
Lounge, 2132 West 25th Street, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44113; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1047-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
Liquor License of a D5 Liquor Permit at 3463 Fulton Road, and repealing Resolution No. 966-08, objecting
to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 Liquor Permit to 3463 Fulton
Road by Resolution No. 966-08 adopted by the Council on June 9, 2008;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above

1448

July 9, 2008
transfer of liquor license and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
Liquor Permit to The District, LLC,
3463 Fulton Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 2201526 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 966-08, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1048-08.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit at 12524 Lorain Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 2259486 owned by Donofrio Management, LLC, DBA Juniors Pub,
12524 Lorain Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44111; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to

July 9, 2008
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1049-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit at 900 Carnegie Avenue, and
repealing
Resolution
No.
879-08,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Carnegie
Energy, Inc., DBA Carnegie BP, 900
Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent No. 1269332, by
Resolution No. 879-08 adopted by the
Council on June 2, 2008; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Carnegie
Energy, Inc., DBA Carnegie BP, 900
Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 1269332 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 879-08, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1050-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4643 Broadway
Avenue.

The City Record
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal
grounds
as
set
forth
in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
76857450005 owned by Salina, Inc.,
DBA Broadway Deli, 4643 Broadway
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44127; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1051-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit at 2288 East 55th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds

1449

73
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit, Permit
No. 5380075 owned by M & I Deli, DBA
M & I Deli, 2288 East 55th Street, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44103; and requests the Director of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1052-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3382 West 44th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other

74
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
1639762 owned by Heriberto Colon,
DBA El Tropical, 3382 West 44th
Street, 1st floor rear and basement,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1053-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 4020 Bridge Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor per-

The City Record
mits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0050321 owned by Adam Deli, Inc.,
4020 Bridge Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44113; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1054-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 3363 East 93rd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code, objections to renewal
of liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.

1450

July 9, 2008
68577350005 owned by Petrobarrels,
Inc., DBA Sunoco Family Foods Express, 3363 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based upon substantial legal grounds
within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1055-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C2, C2X and
D6 Liquor Permit at 7535 Kinsman
Avenue.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C2, C2X and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 5144147 owned by Kimetra L.
Leslie, DBA Big Fahies Deli, 7535
Kinsman Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.

July 9, 2008
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1056-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1, C2, and
D6 Liquor Permit at 3230 East 93rd
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1, C2 and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 7974550 owned by Semaan
Marketing, Inc., DBA Semaan Marketing, 3230 East 93rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opin-

The City Record
ion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1057-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 3019 East 116th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code, objections to renewal
of liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
1896113 owned by Albert Dailey, DBA
Daileys, 3019 East 116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44104; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

1451

75
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1058-08.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 788 East 200th
Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0292783 owned by Ash Kirat Corporation, DBA Convenient Food Mart, #3030, 788 East 200th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio 44119; and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

76
Res. No. 1059-08.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 15507
Saranac Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 9574755 owned by
White Road Gang, Inc., DBA Wallands Saloon, 15507 Saranac Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based upon substantial legal grounds
within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1060-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D5 Liquor
Permit at 10008 Buckeye Road.

The City Record
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
72245520007 owned by Ray Por, Inc.,
DBA Eastwood Inn, 10008 Buckeye
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104; and requests the Director of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1061-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 11132
Buckeye Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the leg-

1452

July 9, 2008
islative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 6877045 owned by
Phase III, Corporation, 11132 Buckeye
Road, P.O. Box 20370, Cleveland, Ohio
44104; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.271 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1062-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D1, D2, D3,
D3A and D6 Liquor Permit at 287175 East 116th Street.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor per-

July 9, 2008
mit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code, objections to renewal
of liquor permits shall be made no
later than thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the permit; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit, Permit No. 1381967 owned by Chareese, Inc., DBA RD’s Seafood & Steak
House, 2871-75 East 116th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120; and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1063-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 2603 Woodhill
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the
legislative authority of a municipal
corporation may object to the renewal of a permit based upon legal
grounds as set forth in division (A)
of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other

The City Record
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
4118409 owned by Ibald, Ind., DBA
American Food Mart, 2603 Woodhill
Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104; and requests the Director of Liquor Control
to set a hearing for said application
in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.271 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1064-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit at 2623 Woodhill
Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section

1453

77
4303.271 of the Ohio Revised Code,
objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made no later than
thirty days prior to the expiration
date of the permit; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record its objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
0084375 owned by AJS Enterprises,
Inc., DBA Hill Top Deli, 2623 Woodhill Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.271 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two copies
of a letter requesting that the hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga
County, and a statement by the Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is based upon
substantial legal grounds within the
meaning and intent of division (A) of
Section 4303.292 of the Revised Code
to the Director of Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Res. No. 1065-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the renewal of a D4 Liquor
Permit at 2890 Woodhill Road.
Whereas, the uniform date for
renewal of liquor permits in the
State of Ohio is October 1st; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code, the legislative authority of a municipal corporation may object to the renewal
of a permit based upon legal grounds
as set forth in division (A) of Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, the applicant is unfit to
continue to engage in the liquor permit business in that he has operated his liquor permit business in a
manner that demonstrates a disregard for the laws, regulations or
local ordinances of the state, and
that this objection is based on other
legal grounds as set forth in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section
4303.271
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code, objections to renewal of liquor permits shall be made
no later than thirty days prior to
the expiration date of the permit;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

78
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the renewal of a D4 Liquor Permit, Permit No.
2402359 owned by East End Democratic Club, 2890 Woodhill Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44104; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.271 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, and a statement by the
Director of Law that, in the Director’s opinion, that the objection is
based upon substantial legal grounds
within the meaning and intent of
division (A) of Section 4303.292 of the
Revised Code to the Director of
Liquor Control.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1971-06
By Council Members Kelley, Britt
and Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 405.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
passed June 12, 2000 relating to towing fees.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 405.06 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
passed June 12,
2000 is amended as follows:
405.06
Impounding and Towing
Fees
(a) In addition to the storage
fee provided for in Section 405.04,
the following fees shall be assessed against the owner or other
person
claiming
an
impounded
vehicle:
(1) An impound fee of thirty dollars ($30.00), except that the impound fee shall be reduced to ten
($10.00) dollars for a person reclaiming a recovered stolen vehicle.

July 9, 2008
(2) A towing fee of ninety dollars
($90.00), except that the towing fee
shall be reduced to fifty dollars
($50.00) for a person reclaiming a
recovered stolen vehicle, and shall
be increased to one hundred and
twenty-five dollars ($125.00) for a
person reclaiming a vehicle impounded incident to an arrest.
The towing charge shall be increased by ten dollars ($10.00) if a
dolly or flatbed is used or if a tire
or tires are changed.
b) No towing or impounding fees
shall be charged when the vehicle
is the property of the victim of a
crime and such vehicle is being held
by the Division of Police for processing.
Section 2. That existing Section
405.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, passed June
12, 2000, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 1069-07.
By Council Member Cummins.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height Districts of land located on the north and south sides of
Denison Avenue between West 16th Street and West 13th Street to Local Retail Business, a ‘B’ Area District and
a ‘2’ Height District (Map Change No. 2237; Sheet No. 6).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Denison Avenue at its intersection with the centerline of West 14th Street;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Denison Avenue to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of
the easterly line of Sublot Number 10 in the Curtiss-Ambler Realty Co. shown on the recorded plat in Volume 26,
Page 5 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County Auditor’s Permanent
Parcel Number 008-28-104;
Thence southerly along said prolongation of said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its
intersection with the southerly line of Sublot Number 1 in said Curtiss-Ambler Subdivision, said parcel also being
known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 008-28-046;
Thence westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of Sublot Number 54 in the
Petty & Baldwin Subdivision as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 10, Page 34 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 008-28-045;
Thence southeasterly along said easterly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the
southerly line of Sublot Number 58 of said Petty & Baldwin Subdivision, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga
County’s Permanent Parcel Number 008-28-041;
Thence westerly along said southerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of West 14th Street;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline to its intersection the westerly prolongation of the northerly line
of Sublot Number 54 in the aforementioned Petty and Baldwin Subdivision (PPN 008-28-045);
Thence continuing westerly in a straight line along the westerly prolongation of said Sublot Number 54 to its
intersection with the centerline of West 15th Street;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of West 15th Street to its intersection with the easterly prolongation
of the northerly line of Sublot Number 28 in the aforementioned Petty and Baldwin Subdivision, said parcel also
being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 009-05-064;
Thence southwesterly along said prolongation of said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of West 16th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 16th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Denison
Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Denison Avenue to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of
the centerline of West 15th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline of West 15th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation
of the centerline of Foster Court S.W.;
Thence easterly along said westerly prolongation of said centerline of Foster Court and continuing along its
easterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 13th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of West 13th Street and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of Denison Avenue;

1454

July 9, 2008

The City Record

79

Thence westerly along said centerline of Denison Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of West 14th
Street and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map are changed to a Local Retail Business District, a ‘B’ Area District and a ‘2’
Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2237, Sheet No. 6 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed
by law.

Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective August 11, 2008.

1455

80
Ord. No. 405-08.
By
Council
Members
Coats,
Mitchell, Johnson, Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to execute a
deed of easement granting to Judson Retirement Community Center
certain easement rights in property
located on Chestnut Hills Drive in
the City of Cleveland Heights and
declaring that the easement rights
granted are not needed for public
use.
Whereas, Judson Retirement Community Center has requested the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties to convey certain easement rights in property located on
Chestnut Hills Drive in the City of
Cleveland Heights; and
Whereas, Judson Retirement Community Center requires the easement rights for the purpose of
installing, repairing, and maintaining a gas line running over, upon,
and through City-owned property;
and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are not needed for public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that an easement interest in
the following described property is
not needed for public use:
20' Gas Line Easement
City of Cleveland
Volume 689, Page 252 Cuyahoga
County Deed Records
Situated in the City of Cleveland
Heights, County of Cuyahoga and
State of Ohio and known as being
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot 412;
Beginning at the intersection of
the centerline of Ambleside Drive,
60.00 feet wide, with the southerly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to
City of Cleveland by Volume 689,
Page 252 Cuyahoga County Deed
Records;
Thence South 68 degrees 17 minutes 45 seconds East along the
southerly line of said parcel of land
conveyed to City of Cleveland, 358.20
feet to an angle point therein;
Thence North 82 degrees 59 minutes 45 seconds East continuing
along the southerly line of said parcel of land conveyed to City of
Cleveland, 45.00 feet to the principal
place of beginning of the parcel
herein described;
Thence North 05 degrees 22 minutes 26 seconds West, 125.31 feet;
Thence North 00 degrees 46 minutes 49 seconds West, 35.85 feet to
the southerly line of Cedar Road,
width varies;

The City Record
Thence Northeasterly along the
southerly line of said Cedar Road,
20.00 feet along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left and having a
radius of 2332.00 feet and a chord
which bears North 89 degrees 13
minutes 11 seconds East, 20.00 feet;
Thence South 00 degrees 46 minutes 49 seconds East, 35.04 feet;
Thence South 05 degrees 22 minutes 26 seconds East, 123.94 feet to
the southerly line of said parcel of
land conveyed to City of Cleveland;
Thence South 82 degrees 59 minutes 45 seconds West along the
southerly line of said parcel of land
conveyed to City of Cleveland, 20.01
feet to the principal place of beginning and containing 3,201 square
feet or 0.0735 acres of land as calculated and described by John M.
Zaranec, Jr. P.S. 7126 for Zaranec
Surveying Co. dated October 12, 2007.
The courses in this description are
to an assumed meridian and are
intended to indicate angles only.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described easement interest
to Judson Retirement Community
Center subject to any conditions
stated in this ordinance, at a price
of
Fifteen
Hundred
Dollars
($1,500.00), which is determined to
be fair market value by the Board
of Control.
Section 3. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to install,
repair, and maintain a gas line running over, upon, and through Cityowned property.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that
the easement shall not be assignable without the consent of the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties;
that
the
easement
shall
require
that
Judson
Retirement
Community Center indemnify the
City, provide reasonable insurance,
maintain any Judson Retirement
Community
Center
improvements
located within the easement; and
pay any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
referenced above shall be made by
official deed of easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The Directors
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Law are authorized to execute
any
other
documents,
including
without
limitation,
contracts
for
right of entry, as may be necessary
to effect the improvement.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

1456

July 9, 2008
Ord. No. 509-08.
Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Hawthorne Avenue
to Petar Oroz.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Petar
Oroz.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-19-044
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being the Westerly 32 feet of Sublot No. 30 in Southern and Chamberlain’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot Nos. 334 and 335, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 11 of
Maps, Pages 42 and 43 of Cuyahoga
County records, and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line
of Hawthorne Avenue, S.E., at a
point 32 feet Easterly, measured
along said Southerly line, from the
Northwesterly corner of Sublot No.
30; thence Southerly, parallel with
the Westerly line of said Sublot,
150 feet to the Northerly line of
Hawthorne
Court,
S.E.;
thence
Westerly along said Northerly line,
27 feet to a point; thence Northwesterly along the Southwesterly
line of Sublot No. 30, 7.07 feet to
the Easterly line of East 63rd
Street; thence Northerly along the
Easterly line of East 63rd Street,
145 feet to the Southerly line of
Hawthorne Avenue, S.E.; thence
Easterly along said Southerly line
of Hawthorne Avenue S.E., 32 feet
to the place of beginning, as appears by said plat.
P. P. No. 118-19-045
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: Known as being the Westerly

The City Record

July 9, 2008
34 feet of the Easterly 68 feet of
Sublot No. 30 in Southern & Chamberlain’s Subdivision of part of Original 100 Acre Lot Nos. 334 and 335,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 11 of Maps, Page 42 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Subject to Covenants and Restrictions in Volume 340, Page 404.
P. P. No. 118-19-046
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the Easterly 34 feet of Sublot No. 30 in L.M.
Southern and W.S. Chamberlain’s
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 334 and 335,
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Subdivision in Volume 11 of
Maps, Page 42 of Cuyahoga County
Records. Said part of Sublot No. 30
has a frontage of 34 feet on the
Southerly side of Hawthorne Avenue
S.E., and extends back between parallel lines 150 feet to a 16 foot alley,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or, less, but subject all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
P. P. No. 118-19-047
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of

Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
28 in Southern and Chamberlain Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334 and 335
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 11 of Maps, Page 42 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being
123.88 feet front on the Southerly
side of Hawthorne Avenue (now
known as Hawthorne Avenue, S.E.),
and extending back of equal width
150 feet deep on the Westerly line
150 feet deep on the Easterly line,
which is also the Westerly line of
Second Avenue (now known as Ashland Road, S.E.), and 123.8.8 feet in
the rear as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also, subject to any zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.

81
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 558-08.
By Council Member Cummins.
An ordinance to change the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands located on the north side of Denison Avenue
east of West 22nd Place and south of Fern Court shown shaded on the attached map to a Multi-Family Residential District, ‘D’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District (Map Change No. 2262; Sheet No. 2).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use, Area and Height Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of West 22nd Place at its intersection with the westerly prolongation of the centerline of Fern Court;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Fern Court to its intersection with the northerly prolongation of the
easterly line of “Block C” in the H.E. Foster Subdivision shown on the recorded plat in Volume 18, Page 16 of
Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said prolongation to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the southerly line
of Sublot Number 121 in said H.E. Foster Subdivision;
Thence westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with the westerly line the aforementioned “Block
C”;
Thence southerly along the southerly prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly
line of Sublot Number 4 of said H.E. Foster Subdivision;
Thence easterly along said northerly line and along its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the westerly
line of Sublot Number 6 in said H.E. Foster Subdivision;
Thence southerly along said westerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Denison Avenue;
Thence easterly along said centerline of Denison to its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the
westerly line of Sublot Number 17 in said H.E. Foster Subdivision;
Thence northerly along said prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line thereof;
Thence easterly along said northerly line to its intersection with the easterly line thereof;
Thence northerly along the northerly prolongation of the easterly line of Sublot Number 17 to its intersection
with the northerly line of Sublot Number 135;
Thence westerly along said northerly line to its intersection with the westerly line thereof;
Thence southerly along said westerly line to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the southerly
line of Fern Court;
Thence westerly along said prolongation of said westerly line to its intersection with the easterly line of Fern
Court;

1457

The City Record

82

July 9, 2008

Thence northerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the easterly prolongation of the centerline of
Fern Court;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Fern Court and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with
the Centerline of West 22nd Place;
and as shaded on the attached map are changed to a Multi-Family Residential District, a ‘D’ Area District and
a ‘2’ Height District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2262, Sheet No. 2 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person
designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective August 11, 2008.

1458

The City Record

July 9, 2008
Ord. No. 588-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts
with Critical Business Analysis, Inc.
for professional services necessary
to acquire software upgrades to Expedition software, and for set-up,
maintenance, training, hosting, and
support services related to its use,
for a period of one year, with two
one-year options to renew, the second of which is exercisable through
additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with Critical Business Analysis, Inc. (“CBA”)
for professional services necessary
to acquire software upgrades to Expedition software, and for set-up,
maintenance, training, hosting, and
support services related to its use,
on the basis of its proposal dated
March 18, 2008, in an amount not to
exceed $51,500.00, for the Department of Port Control, for a period of
one year, with two one-year options
to renew. The first of the one-year
options to renew may be exercised
by the Director of Port Control,
without the necessity of obtaining

83
additional authority of this Council.
The second of the one-year options
to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative authority.
The contract or contracts shall be
paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001, Request No. 175207.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 591-08.
By Council Members Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of various on-road
vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories, equipment and other aftermarket items necessary
to equip the vehicles authorized for their intended purposes, including vehicle rehabilitation, training, and
inspections, as needed, for the various divisions of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to make one or more written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of
one year for the necessary items of various on-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories,
equipment and other aftermarket items necessary to equip the vehicles authorized for their intended purposes,
including labor and materials necessary for vehicle rehabilitation, training, and inspections, as needed, in the
estimated sum of $14,854,000, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for
the various divisions of City government, as described below:
GENERAL FUND
Item

Extended

Number

Item Description

User

Quantity

Est. Cost

Est. Cost

1

Passenger Car, Full-Size, w/Police Pkg

Police

90

30,000

2,700,000

2

Passenger Car, Mid-Size

Police

12

17,500

210,000

SUV, 4x4

Police

5

32,000

160,000

3

TCab/Chassis w/Auto 25-cy Packer Body

Waste Collection

8

200,000

1,600,000

4

TCab/Chassis w/Auto 25-40-cy Packer Body

Waste Collection

6

175,000

1,050,000

5

Cab/Chassis w/Roll-Off Hoist

Waste Collection

1

165,000

165,000

6

Cab/Chassis w/Dump-Spreader-Plow

Streets

3

130,000

390,000

7

TCab/Chassis w/Dump-Spreader-Plow

Streets

3

140,000

420,000

8

Cab/Chassis w/Aerial Device

Traffic Engineering

1

170,000

170,000

9

SUV, 4X4

Fire

1

32,000

32,000

10

Fire Pumper

Fire

2

495,000

990,000

11

Fire Aerial

Fire

1

675,000

675,000

12

Cab/Chassis w/Ambulance Module

EMS

3

195,000

585,000

13

15-Passenger Van

Recreation

4

27,000

108,000

14

Pick-Up

Park Maintenance

8

40,000

320,000

15

Pick-Up

Park Maintenance

8

30,000

240,000

16

Tractor w/Attachments

Park Maintenance

5

40,000

200,000

17

Mower

Park Maintenance

10

7,500

75,000

18

Leaf Vacuum

Park Maintenance

6

7,000

42,000

19

Truckster

Park Maintenance

3

20,000

60,000

2A

TOTALS

10,192,000

1459

The City Record

84

July 9, 2008

ENTERPRISE FUND
Item

Extended

Number

Item Description

User

Quantity

Est. Cost

Est. Cost

20

SUV, 4x4, Hybrid

Water

4

30,000

120,000

21

Pick-Up, 1/2 Ton

Water

5

24,000

120,000

22

Pick-Up, 3/4 Ton

Water

1

27,000

27,000

23

Pick-Up, Crew Cab

Water

3

36,000

108,000
120,000

24

Pick-Up, 4x4

Water

3

40,000

25

Cargo Van, Full-Size (or pick-up w/ storage)

Water

1

30,000

30,000

26

Cab/Chassis w/USV

Water

2

80,000

160,000

27

Cab/Chassis w/USV and valve turner

Water

3

120,000

360,000

28

Cab/Chassis w/Flat Bed and Crane

Water

2

195,000

390,000

29

Pick-Up

WPC

1

26,000

26,000

30

Cab/Chassis w/Sewer Cleaner

WPC

1

280,000

280,000

31

SUV, 4X4, Hybrid

CPP

3

29,000

87,000

32

Step Van/USV

CPP

2

52,000

104,000

33

Cab/Chassis w/Line Truck

CPP

2

100,000

200,000

34

Cab/Chassis w/Aerial Device

CPP

2

175,000

350,000

35

Cab/Chassis w/Digger-Derrick

CPP

1

193,000

193,000

36

Cable Pulling Unit

CPP

1

250,000

250,000

37

SUV, 4X4, Hybrid

Port Control

3

23,000

69,000

38

Pick-Up

Port Control

3

22,000

66,000

39

High-Speed Tow Broom

Port Control

1

200,000

200,000

40

Runway Plow

Port Control

2

191,000

382,000

41

Tow Broom Upgrade

Port Control

3

110,000

330,000

42

ARFF Rescue

Port Control

1

270,000

270,000

43

Street Sweeper

Port Control

1

90,000

1,435,000

306,000

1,184,000

90,000
1,407,000

44

Utility Vehicle, Off-Road

Convention Center

3

10,000

30,000
30,000

45

Utility Vehicle, Off-Road

West Side Market

1

30,000

30,000
30,000

46

Passenger Car, Mid-Size

Judicial/Housing

2

22,000

44,000

47

SUV, 4x4

Judicial/Housing

1

32,000

32,000
76,000

GRAND TOTALS

14,660,000

Bids shall be taken in such manner as to permit an award to be made for all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of Control determines.

Alternate bids

for a period less than a year may be taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until
provision is made for the requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the costs of the contract or contracts shall be paid from the fund or funds to which are credited
the proceeds of the sale of subordinated income tax bonds authorized by Ordinance No. 120-08, passed February
25, 2008, if the City sells such bonds, and shall be charged against the proper appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract
or contracts certified by the Director of Finance. (RL 177828)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The Director of Public Service may sign all documents
with the State of Ohio or any of its political subdivisions that are necessary to make the purchases and may
enter into contract or contracts with the vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

1460

July 9, 2008
Ord. No. 648-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving certain amendments to the Flats
East Bank Community Development
Plan for the Plan Area and for the
Action Area which is located within
the Plan Area.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1644-05, passed October 17, 2005, this
Council approved the Flats East
Bank Community Development Plan
dated September, 2005 (the “CD
Plan”), for the Plan Area designated and described in the CD Plan
(the “Plan Area”) which included an
Action Area; and
Whereas, the CD Plan contemplated certain activities and treatment to eliminate conditions of
blight and deterioration and to prevent the recurrence of blight within
the Plan Area; and
Whereas, amendments to the CD
Plan have been prepared, including
those which change the boundaries
of the Plan Area, and alter the land
use, building heights, and permitted
square footages within the Action
Area, and the City Planning Commission has approved the CD Plan,
as amended; and
Whereas, the proposed CD Plan,
as amended, contemplate specific
measures to eliminate conditions of
blight and deterioration in the Action Area by providing for the redevelopment of structures and property under Community Development
Plan standards; and
Whereas, for the reasons above,
Council has determined that the CD
Plan, as amended, and implementation of the measures in the CD Plan,
as amended, are in the best interests of the citizens of the City, will
best fulfill the public purposes of
the CD Plan, as amended, and will
provide for the general health, safety and welfare of the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes and emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public property, health,
and safety in that approval of the
Plan, as amended, are necessary in
order that steps can be immediately
undertaken to eliminate conditions
of blight and deterioration of the
Plan Area and to prevent the recurrence of blight; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council finds
that the public actions and policies
proposed and contemplated by the
CD Plan, as amended, are necessary
and appropriate in order to eliminate the conditions of blight and
deterioration, and prevent the recurrence of blight in the Plan Area. It
is further found and determined that
the CD Plan, as amended, which
includes changes to the boundaries
of the Plan Area, alterations of the
land use, building heights, and permitted square footages within the
Action Area and are placed in File
No. 648-08-A, conforms to and is in
compliance with the applicable provisions of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. The new
boundaries of the Plan Area, as
changed under the CD Plan, as
amended, is described as follows:

The City Record
FLATS EAST BANK COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT PLAN –
PROPOSED AMENDED PLAN
AREA BOUNDARY
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and the State
of Ohio and beginning at the intersection of the Northerly right-of-way
of Main Avenue, NW (40 feet wide)
and the Westerly right-of-way of
West 9th Street (99 feet wide);
thence Northwesterly along said
Westerly right-of-way of West 9th
Street to its intersection with the
Southerly bridge abutment of the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority’s
(GCRTA)
Waterfront
Rail Line;
Thence, Southwesterly along said
Southerly GCRTA bridge abutment
to its intersection with the Northeasterly property line of Parcel “B”
of a Lot Split and Consolidation for
the Consolidated Rail Corporation
recorded in Volume 281 Pages 23 and
24 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence Northwesterly along said
Northeasterly property line of Parcel “B” and its Northwesterly prolongation to a point about 193 feet
Northwesterly of the Northwesterly
property line of said Parcel “B”;
thence Southwesterly and parallel
with said Northwesterly line of Parcel “B” to the Northwesterly prolongation of the Southwesterly line of
said Parcel “B”; thence Southeasterly along the Nortwesterly prolongation and the Southwesterly line of
said Parcel “B” to the Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Southwesterly along the Southwesterly
prolongation of the Southerly line of
said Parcel “B” to its intersection
with the Easterly dock line of the
Cuyahoga River; thence Southerly
along said Easterly dock line to its
intersection with the Southerly line
of the Main Avenue Bridge; thence
Northeasterly along said Southerly
line to its intersection with the
Easterly line of Old River Road;
thence Southerly along said Easterly line of Old River Road to its
intersection with the Northerly line
of Sublot No. 9 in the H. Curtis et
al Subdivision recorded in Volume
“4” Page 30 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 9 and its
Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the Westerly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to the City
of Cleveland by deed recorded in
Volume 90-2362, Pages 4 through 17
of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northwesterly along said
Westerly line of parcel conveyed to
the City of Cleveland and its Northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with said Northerly right-ofway of Main Avenue, NW (40 feet
wide).
Thence Northeasterly along said
Northerly right-of-way of Main Avenue, NW (40 feet wide) to its intersection with said Westerly right-ofway of West 9th Street (99 feet
wide) and the principal place of
beginning.
Section 2. That it is found and
determined that the CD Plan, as
amended,
will
afford
maximum
opportunity
consistent
with
the
sound needs of the City as a whole
for the redevelopment of the Plan
Area and the Action Area by private

1461

85
enterprise; that the CD Plan, as
amended, gives due consideration to
the provision of adequate open
space, park and recreational areas
appropriate to the area and that the
CD Plan, as amended, is in conformity with the general Plan of the
City and the workable program for
community improvements of the
City.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 649-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Johnson and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept a grant from the State
of Ohio to assist with the acquisition of real property needed for the
Flats East Bank Project; authorizing a project agreement with The
Wolstein Group, Inc. and The Flats
East Development LLC relating to
the acquisition of property; authorizing a cooperative agreement with
the State of Ohio, The Wolstein
Group, Inc. and The Flats East
Development LLC relating to the
project; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
to purchase the subject property.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1829-05, passed October 17, 2005, this
Council authorized the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Department of
Commerce
National
Oceanic
and
Atmospheric Administration for the
Flats East Bank Riverfront Park,
which proceeds were appropriated
for the acquisition of real property
to implement the Flats East Bank
Project (the “Project”); and
Whereas, The Wolstein Group,
Inc. and The Flats East Development LLC jointly own real property
which is needed for the Project
which they are willing to sell to the
City; and
Whereas, in addition to the grant
proceeds received under Ordinance
No. 1829-05, additional funding is
necessary to acquire the property,
which will be secured under this
ordinance; and
Whereas, a grant agreement with
the State of Ohio, a project agreement with The Wolstein Group, Inc.
and The Flats East Development
LLC, and a cooperative agreement
with the State of Ohio, The Wolstein
Group Inc. and The Flats East
Development LLC, are necessary
relating to the purchase of property
which is the subject of this ordinance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

86
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to apply for and accept
a grant in the amount of $1,000,000,
from the State of Ohio to assist with
the acquisition of property needed
for the Flats East Bank Project;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into a project
agreement with The Wolstein Group,
Inc. and The Flats East Development LLC relating to the acquisition
of property needed for the Project.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into a cooperative agreement with the State of
Ohio, The Wolstein Group, Inc. and
The Flats East Development LLC
relating to implementation of the
Project.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the following described
property for future redevelopment of
the Flats East Bank:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
OF A
0.4647 ACRE PARCEL OF LAND
(PARK AREA)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Alfred Kelley’s Subdivision of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 191-193
inclusive, as recorded in Volume M,
page
484
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Beginning at a one inch iron pin
monument found in at the center
line intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and Old River Road, 66
feet wide, of which said monument
bears South 55° 38' 38" West, 404.06
feet from a one inch iron pin monument found at the center line intersection of said Main Avenue, 40 feet
wide, and the traveled roadway of
West 10th Street;
Thence North 71° 42' 36" West
along the center line of Old River
Road, 66 feet wide, a distance of
109.40 feet to a point therein;
Thence South 18° 09' 34" West, a
distance of 110.81 feet to a point on
the westerly line of land now or formerly owned by Flats East Development
LLC,
Permanent
Parcel
Number 101-11-021, as recorded by
AFN
200009180713
of
Cuyahoga
County Deed Records, and the Principal Place of Beginning of the land
intended to be described herein;
Thence continuing South 18° 09'
34" West along said westerly line of
Flats East Development LLC, a distance of 43.62 feet to the northerly
dock line of the Cuyahoga River, as
established by Ordinance Number
31,283, passed March 4, 1901, and the
southwesterly corner thereof;
Thence North 76° 24' 14" West

The City Record
along said northerly dock line of the
Cuyahoga River, a distance of 295.03
feet to an angle point;
Thence North 73° 32' 38" West
continuing
along
said
northerly
dock line of the Cuyahoga River, a
distance of 104.05 feet to an angle
point;
Thence North 73° 00' 12" West
continuing
along
said
northerly
dock line of the Cuyahoga River, a
distance of 137.34 feet to an angle
point;
Thence North 66° 02' 17" West
continuing
along
said
northerly
dock line of the Cuyahoga River, a
distance of 88.63 feet to an angle
point;
Thence North 55° 19' 17" West
continuing
along
said
northerly
dock line of the Cuyahoga River, a
distance of 0.88 feet to the southeasterly corner of land now or formerly owned by the Flats East
Development LLC, Permanent Parcel Number 101-11-014;
Thence North 18° 11' 54" East
along the easterly line of said Flats
East Development LLC, Permanent
Parcel Number 101-11-014, a distance
of 25.56 feet to a point therein;
Thence South 71° 54' 03" East, a
distance of 357.97 feet to a point on
the southerly line of land now or
formerly
owned
by
Flats
East
Development LLC, Permanent Parcel Number 101-11-017;
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, and having
a radius of 265.34 feet, a central
angle of 06° 36' 34", a tangent of
15.32 feet, a chord of 30.59 feet
which bears North 57° 12' 28" East,
a distance of 30.61 feet to a point of
curve;
Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, and having a
radius of 400.00 feet, a central angle
of 36° 03' 14", a tangent of 130.18
feet, a chord of 247.57 feet which
bears South 75° 05' 58" East, a distance of 251.70 feet to the Principal
Place of Beginning, and containing
0.4647 acre (20,244 Square Feet) of
land, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways and
easements of record.
Prepared By: GPD ASSOCIATES
Project No. 2008002.00
June 24, 2008.
Section 5. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to execute on behalf of
the City of Cleveland all necessary
documents to acquire the property
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers,
environmental
audits,
and all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the property.
Section 6. That the consideration
to be paid for this property shall not
exceed fair market value.
Section 7. That all costs of acquisition of land shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are
credited the proceeds of the grant
accepted under this ordinance and
from grant funds accepted under
Ordinance No. 1829-05, passed October 17, 2005 and deposited into
Fund No. 20 SF 629.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force

1462

July 9, 2008
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 652-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 67th Street to
69th Street Holdings LLC.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to 69th
Street Holdings LLC.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-31-009
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 12 in M.W. and W.S.
Chamberlain’s Re-Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 334 and 335, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps,
Page
44
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and forming a parcel of
land bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
East 67th Street (formerly Baden
Avenue)
60
feet
wide,
at
the
Southwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 12; thence Northerly along the
Easterly line of East 67th Street,
35.01 feet to the Northwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 12; thence
Easterly along the Northerly line
of said Sublot No. 12, 69.20 feet;
thence Southerly, along a line parallel with said Easterly line of
East 67th Street, 35.01 feet to the
Southerly line of said Sublot No. 12,
thence Westerly, along said Southerly line of Sublot No. 12, 69.20 feet
to the place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.

July 9, 2008
P. P. No. 118-31-036
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 212 in W.S. and M. W.
Chamberlain’s Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 334 and 335, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
28
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
East 67th Street (formerly Baden
Avenue) at the Northwesterly corner
of said Sublot No. 212; thence Easterly, along the Northerly line of said
Sublot No. 212, which is also the center line of a private court (14 feet
wide) 135 feet to the principal place
of beginning of a parcel of land
herein intended to be described;
thence Easterly along said Northerly line of Sublot No. 212, and along
said Center line of said private
court, 66 feet; thence Southerly
along a line parallel with said Easterly line of East 67th Street, 50 feet
to the Southerly line of said Sublot
No. 212; thence Westerly along said
Southerly line of Sublot No. 212, 66
feet, thence Northerly along a line
parallel with said Easterly line of
East 67th Street, 50 feet to the principal place of beginning, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 118-31-041
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 12 in M.W. and W.S.
Chamberlain’s Re-Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 334 and 335 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps,
Page
44
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and forming a parcel of
land bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
East 67th Street (formerly Baden
Avenue), 60 feet wide, at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No.
12; thence Easterly, along the Southerly line of said Sublot No. 12, 69.20
feet to the principal place of beginning of the parcel of land herein
intended to be described; thence
Northerly, along a line parallel with
said Easterly line of East 67th
Street, 35.01 feet to the Northerly
line of said Sublot No. 12; thence
Easterly along said Northerly line
of Sublot No. 12, 65.80 feet to the
Northeasterly corner thereof; thence
Southerly, along the Easterly line of
said Sublot No. 12, 35.01 feet to the
Southeasterly corner thereof; thence
Westerly along said Southerly line
of Sublot No. 12, 65.80 feet to the
principal place of beginning, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to restrictions and easements contained in deed recorded in
Volume 6686, Page 32, Cuyahoga
County Records.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of

The City Record
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 684-08.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of renovating
and repairing Public Auditorium,
which includes Music Hall and Public Hall, and renovating and repairing the exhibit halls and meeting
rooms of the Convention Center;
authorizing the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement; authorizing the Director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement; and to enter into various written standard purchase and
requirement contracts needed in connection with the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of renovating and repairing Public Auditorium, which includes Music Hall
and Public Hall, and renovating and
repairing the exhibit halls and meeting rooms of the Convention Center,
(the “Improvement”), for the Division of Convention Center and Sta-

1463

87
dium Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, by one or more
contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding for a gross
price for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or
more contracts for the making of
the public improvement with the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding for
a gross price for the Improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the Improvement
may be treated as a separate
Improvement, and each, or any
combination, of the trades or components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
On request of the director the contractor
shall
furnish
a
correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
design the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to make one or more
written standard purchase contracts
and written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the period of requirements to be
determined by the director, for the
necessary items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary to construct the Improvement,
including labor and materials if necessary for installation, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Convention Center and Stadium, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 5. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
and
the

88
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund No. 11 SF 006, Request No.
186609.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 698-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise an option to renew Contract
No. 67144 with Action Automatics,
Inc. to provide for parts necessary
to maintain and repair automatic
doors, including labor and installation, if necessary, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 19307, passed March 12, 2007, this Council authorized the Director of Port
Control to enter into Contract No.
67144 with Action Automatics, Inc.
to provide for parts necessary to
maintain
and
repair
automatic
doors, including labor and installation, if necessary, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 193-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the option to renew Contract
No. 67144 for an additional year at
a cost not to exceed $60,000 with
Action Automatics, Inc., to provide
for parts necessary to maintain and
repair automatic doors, including
labor and installation, if necessary,
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control. This

The City Record
ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 193-07 to exercise this
option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 707-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 33rd Street to
Shun Ting Mo and Catherine Yn
Lau.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Shun
Ting Mo and Catherine Yn Lau.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 102-35-021
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
29 in J.H. Webster, Assignee and
Mable Weddell’s Subdivision of part
of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 89,
90 and 91 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 13 of Maps, Page 36
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 30 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 33rd Street (formerly
Everett Street) 130.08, feet deep on
the Northerly line, 130.11 feet deep
on the Southerly line and 30 feet in
the rear, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six

1464

July 9, 2008
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 708-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 33rd Street to
Shun Ting Mo and Catherine Yn
Lau.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Shun
Ting Mo and Catherine Yn Lau.

July 9, 2008
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 102-37-055
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio and known as being Sublot
No. 103 in the J.H. Webster Assignee
and Mable Weddell’s Subdivision of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos.
89, 90 and 91, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps,
Page
36
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 30 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 33rd
Street, (formerly Everett Street) and
extending back between parallel
lines 130 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 755-08.
By Council Members White, Johnson, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located on the south side of Marston
Avenue, north of Miles Avenue, and
known as Permanent Parcel Nos. 13811-146 and 138-11-147 to Union Miles
Development Corporation, or its designee, for commercial development.

The City Record
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties
has
requested the sale of the City-owned
property to Union Miles Development Corporation, or its designee,
(the “Redeveloper”) no longer needed for public use and located on the
south side of Marston Avenue, north
of Miles Avenue, and known as Permanent Parcel Nos. 138-11-146 and
138-11-147 for purposes of commercial redevelopment; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the following described
property is no longer needed for
public use:
PPN: 138-11-146
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublot No. 49 in the Corlett Homestead Subdivision of part of Original
Newburgh Township Lot No. 470,
recorded in Volume 43, Page 22 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
bounded and described as follows:
Being 40.00 feet front on the Westerly side of East 135th Street and
extending back between parallel
lines of equal depth 131.5 feet, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
PPN: 138-11-147
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being all of
Sublot No. 50 in the Corlett Homestead Subdivision of part of Original
Newburgh Township Lot No. 470,
recorded in Volume 43, Page 22 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
bounded and described as follows:
Being 40.00 feet front on the Westerly side of East 135th Street and
extending back between parallel
lines of equal depth 131.5 feet, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to sell the
above-described
property
to
the
Redeveloper at a price to be determined by the Board of Control, taking into account all restrictions,
reversionary interests and similar
encumbrances placed by the City of
Cleveland
in
the
deed
of
conveyance.
Section 3. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain necessary provisions,
including restrictive reversionary
interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control or Director of
Law, which shall protect the parties as their respective interests
require and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any advertising signs or

1465

89
billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 756-08.
By Council Members Kelley, Johnson, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to apply for
and accept a grant from the State
of Ohio for site improvements at
Loew Park.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to apply for and accept
a grant in the amount of $50,000,
from the State of Ohio for site
improvements
to
Loew
Park,
including, but not limited to, ball
diamond relocation and pedestrian
circulation improvements; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds
under the grant; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 756-08-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 757-08.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Johnson and Cimperman (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to execute a
deed of easement granting to St.
Paul A.M.E. Church certain easement rights in property located

90
along Emery Park between Emery
Avenue and West 130th Street and
declaring the easement rights granted are not needed for public use.
Whereas, St. Paul A.M.E. Church
(“St. Paul”) requested the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
to convey certain easement rights in
property located along Emery Park
between Emery Avenue and West
130th Street; and
Whereas, St. Paul requires the
easement rights to bury an electrical conduit to run along the northerly boundary of Emery Park which
will allow St. Paul to connect a
three-phase electrical power line to
West 130th Street; and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are not needed for public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that an easement interest in
the following described property is
not needed for public use:
First Energy Electric Easement
Cleveland, Ohio
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Parcel 2 of Lot Split Plat of Permanent Parcel Numbers 022-17-013,
022-20-001 and 022-20-002 for the City
of Cleveland of part of Original
Rockport Township Lot No. 10 as
shown on the recorded plat in Volume 343, Page 85 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the westerly line of West 130th
Street (40 feet wide) and the southerly line of Emery Avenue (25 feet
wide);
Thence South 00° 31' 30" East
along the westerly line of West
130th Street, 12.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 89° 54' 58" West,
297.79 feet to a point;
Thence South 65° 42' 44" West,
407.65 feet to a point;
Thence South 51° 38' 10" West,
59.21 feet to a point on the easterly
line of Parcel 1 of aforesaid Lot
Split Plat of Permanent Parcel Numbers 022-17-013, 022-20-001 and 022-20002 for the City of Cleveland;
Thence North 00° 05' 02" East,
15.32 feet to a point on the southeasterly limited access line of Interstate Route 71;
Thence North 51° 38' 10" East
along
the
southeasterly
limited
access line of Interstate Route 71,
51.16 feet to a point;
Thence North 65° 42' 44" East
along
the
southeasterly
limited
access line of Interstate Route 71,
411.72 feet to a point on the southerly line of aforesaid Emery Avenue;
Thence South 89° 54' 58" East
along the southerly line of Emery
Avenue, 300.25 feet to the point of
beginning and containing 0.2104
acres of land (9,167 square feet) as

The City Record
calculated and described by Brian C.
Pcionek, P.S. 8295 of TGC Engineering, LLC in April of 2008, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
BASIS OF BEARINGS: Centerline
bearing (North 00° 31' 30" West) of
West 130th Street as shown on the
recorded plat in Volume 343, Page
85 of Cuyahoga County Map Records
Section 2. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described non-exclusive easement interest to St. Paul, subject to
any conditions stated herein, at fair
market value.
Section 3. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to bury an
electrical conduit to run along the
northerly boundary of Emery Park
which will allow St. Paul to connect
a three-phase electrical power line
to West 130th Street.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be perpetual; that
the easement may include reasonable right of entry rights to the
City; that the easement shall not be
assignable without the consent of
the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties; that the easement
shall require that St. Paul indemnify the City, provide reasonable
insurance, maintain any St. Paul
improvements located within the
easement, and pay any applicable
taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
referred to above shall be made by
official deed of easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The Directors
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Law are authorized to execute
such other documents, including
without
limitation,
contracts
for
right of entry, as may be necessary
to effect the construction of the
improvements.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 765-08.
By Council Members White, Pierce
Scott, Johnson, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to transfer Permanent
Parcel Nos. 134-20-001 and 134-20-051,
to the control, possession, and use of
the Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Whereas, the Department of Community
Development
desires
to
transfer certain property under its
control to the Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties; and

1466

July 9, 2008
Whereas, Section 183.14 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, requires that such transfer be preceded by an ordinance of
Council approving the transfer; and
Whereas, the property to be transferred is a component of the City of
Cleveland’s land reutilization program and, as such, can be transferred under Section 5722.07 of the
Revised Code without the consent of
other legislative authorities only if:
(a) the property is sold at not less
than fair market value under the
policies of the Land Reutilization
Program; and (b) the property is
subject to such restrictions and
covenants as appropriate to assure
the land’s effective reutilization;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.14 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Community Development is authorized
to
transfer
the
following
described property to the control,
possession, and use of the Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties:
P. P. No. 134-20-001
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot
Nos. 54 and 55 in Moses Fish, G.P.
Jewett and E.T. Hamilton’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 471 and 472 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page 20 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and together forming a parcel of land bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Southeasterly line of Warner Road, S.E.
(49.5 feet wide) at a point in the
Southwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 55; thence Northeasterly along
said Southeasterly line of Warner
Road, S.E. about 148.50 feet to a
point at the Northwesterly corner of
said Sublot No. 54, said point lying
in the Southerly line of Tioga
Avenue, S.E. (40 feet wide); thence
Easterly, along said Southerly line
of Tioga Avenue, S.E. about 65 feet
to the Southeasterly corner of said
Sublot No. 54; thence Southerly,
along the Easterly line of Sublot
Nos. 54 and 55, which is also the
Westerly line of a 16.5 foot wide
alley, about 138.75 feet to a point at
the Southeast corner of Sublot No.
55; thence Westerly, in a direct line
along the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 55 to the Southeasterly
line of Warner Road, S.E., and the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
PPN: 134-20-051
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot No. 32 in E. T. Hamilton and
others Subdivision of part of the
Original One Hundred Acre Lot Nos.
471 and 472, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 4 of Maps, Page

July 9, 2008
20 of Cuyahoga County Records and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly side
of Tioga Avenue, SE at its intersection with Westerly line of said
Sublot; thence Easterly along said
Southerly line of Tioga Avenue, S.E.,
66 feet to its intersection with Easterly line of said Sublot; thence
Southerly along said Easterly line
of said Sublot No. 32, 104.50 feet;
thence Westerly and parallel with
said Southerly line of Tioga Avenue
S.E., 66 feet to the Westerly line of
said Sublot; thence Northerly along
said Westerly line 104.50 feet to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat.
Section 2. That on consummation
of the transfer referenced above, the
directors participating in the transaction shall initial and date a copy
of this ordinance and deliver the
copy to the custody of the Division
of Property Management of the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Section 3. That, as a condition of
the transfer, the Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
shall pay the Department of Community Development a price not less
than fair market value as determined by the Board of Control, considering
the
restrictions
and
covenants deemed necessary by the
Director of Community Development
to assure the property’s effective
reutilization.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 775-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an amendment
to the development agreement, Contract No. 65719, with the ClevelandCuyahoga County Port Authority
and Flats East Development LLC,
for construction and financing of
residential units and related commercial improvements.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 57906, passed April 24, 2006, this Council authorized a development agreement with the Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County Port Authority and Flats
East Development LLC, for construction and financing of residential units and related commercial
improvements; and
Whereas, modifications to the development agreement, Contract No.
65719, are desired; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an amendment to
the development agreement, Contract No. 65719, with the ClevelandCuyahoga County Port Authority
and Flats East Development LLC,
authorized by Ordinance No. 579-06,
passed April 24, 2006, to change certain terms, which will be substantially in the form of the amended
development agreement, placed in
File No. 775-08-B.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 814-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of Ring Communications
standalone crash phone system, including installation and testing, for
the Division of Burke Lakefront Airport, Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
each or all of the following items:
Ring Communications standalone crash
phone system, including installation
and testing, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for a gross price, for the Division of Burke Lakefront Airport,
Department of Port Control.
Section 2. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Port Control may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into contract
or contracts with the vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001,
Request No. 175217.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

1467

91
Ord. No. 817-08.
By Council Members White, Pierce
Scott, Johnson and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of electronic
parking meters, for the Division of
Parking Facilities, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
for a period of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to make one or more
written
requirement
contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a one year
period of the necessary items of
electronic parking meters, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Parking
Facilities, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for
all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 142620)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance
may be made through cooperative
agreements using state procedures.
The Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties may sign all documents with the State of Ohio or any
of its political subdivisions that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

92
Ord. No. 829-08.
By Council Members Cimperman
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of City Planning and Parks, Recreation and
Properties to enter into a Project
Development Agreement with the
Cuyahoga County Board of County
Commissioners, the Board of Park
Commissioners of the Cleveland
Metropolitan Park District, Cleveland Metroparks Board of Parks
Commissioners,
and
the
North
Cuyahoga Valley, Inc. dba Ohio
Canal Corridor to implement the
Towpath Trail Project; and authorizing other agreements relative to
the Project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
City Planning and Parks, Recreation and Properties are authorized
to enter into a Project Development
Agreement with the Cuyahoga County Board of County Commissioners,
the Board of Park Commissioners of
the Cleveland Metropolitan Park
District, Cleveland Metroparks Board
of Parks Commissioners, and North
Cuyahoga Valley, Inc. dba Ohio
Canal Corridor to implement the
Towpath Trail Project, which will
be substantially in the form of the
draft agreement placed in File No.
829-08-B.
Section 2. That the Directors of
City Planning and Parks, Recreation and Properties are authorized
to enter into one or more agreements that are necessary to implement the Towpath Trail Project.
Section 3. That if the Board of
Park Commissioners of the Cleveland
Metropolitan
Park
District
(“CMPD”) finds it necessary to hire
additional employees as a result of
the operation and maintenance of
the Towpath Trail, the Board of
Park Commissioners of the CMPD
shall notify the City of Cleveland’s
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources and the Clerk of Cleveland City Council of any job postings.
Section 4. That any City of Cleveland appointee to the Towpath Trail
Membership Committee, created by
the execution of the agreement
authorized by this ordinance, other
than the Director of Parks, Recreation & Properties, shall be made by
the Mayor with the approval of City
Council. City Council review and
approval shall occur through the
Mayor’s Appointment Committee.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

The City Record
Ord. No. 861-08.
By Council Members Kelley, Pierce
Scott, Cimperman, Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 573.02, 573.04, 573.05, 573.10,
and 573.99 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended and enacted by various
ordinances, relating to obstructions
within the Harbor and relating
penalty.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 573.02, 573.04, and 573.05,
as amended by Ordinance No. 148454, passed June 21, 1954,
Section 573.10, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1485-00, passed June
21, 2000, and
Section 573.99, as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September
22, 1924,
are amended to read as follows:
Section 573.02
Removal of Obstructions; Notice; Enforcement
(a) Whenever the Director of Port
Control or the Harbormaster find
that it becomes necessary to cause
the removal of any obstruction
which is existing or will be placed
within the limits of the harbor, as
defined in the map of survey and
ordinance establishing the same, the
Director of Port Control or the Harbormaster shall cause an order to be
made requiring the removal of the
obstruction. The Director of Port
Control or the Harbormaster shall
cause written notice to be served, by
registered mail, on the owner of any
lot or land bounding or abutting on
the harbor line, or the agent of any
owner who may have caused the
obstruction or who may have permitted any obstruction to remain in
front of his premises, requiring him
to remove the obstruction without
delay. The notice shall describe the
obstruction and a date by which the
obstruction is to be cleared or expiration of the publication as specified
in the notice, and other information
that the Director of Port Control or
the Harbormaster deem necessary.
If the address of the owner or agent
of the owner is returned as undeliverable or otherwise insufficient
using registered mail, then service,
return, and publication shall be in
the manner provided for Revised
Code Section 727.13.
(b) If the requirements of the
notice are not observed within the
number of days from the service of
notice or expiration of the publication as specified in the notice, the
Director of Port Control or the Harbormaster shall have the obstruction
removed at the expense of the
owner, and shall report the cost of
the work described in the notice so
that it may be a lien on the property and may be collected as provided in Revised Code Section 727.33.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions
of this section, the Director of Law
may take any action necessary to
enforce compliance with this Section.

1468

July 9, 2008
Section 573.04 Construction or Repair; Notice; Enforcement
(a) Whenever the Director of Port
Control or Harbormaster finds that
a condition exists making it necessary that retaining works or structures be constructed, or any existing
works or structures, wharves, docks
or bulkheads, or any portion of the
same be repaired along the established dock lines of the Cuyahoga
River, old ship channel or the Standard Oil slip, in front of any specified parcel of land abutting such
waterway, the Director shall cause
written notice to be served on the
owners of such parcel of land, or on
the agents of the owners by registered mail. The notice shall describe
the
unsafe
condition,
either
a
description of corrective measures to
be taken or an enclosed plan to correct the condition, a date by which
the work is to be completed or expiration of the publication as specified
in the notice, and other information
that the Director deems necessary.
If the address of the owner or agent
of the owner is returned as undeliverable or otherwise insufficient
using registered mail, then service,
return and publication shall be in
the manner provided for Revised
Code Section 727.13.
(b) If the requirements of the
notice are not observed within the
number of days from the service of
notice or expiration of the publication as specified in the notice, the
Director of Port Control shall have
the work done at the expense of the
owner and under the plan attached
to the notice or as described in the
notice, and shall report the cost of
the work described in the notice so
that it may be a lien on the property and may be collected as provided
in
Revised
Code
Section
727.33.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the Director of
Law may take any action necessary
to enforce compliance with this Section.
Section 573.05
Retaining Works;
Specifications
Hereafter
all
wharves,
docks,
piers
or
bulkheads
constructed,
repaired or renewed along the Cuyahoga River, old ship channel or
Standard Oil slip shall be built on
the dock lines established by Council and shall comply with the
requirements specified in this section, but the specifications contained herein shall not be construed
as a limitation upon the power of
Council to provide by resolution for
such construction or repairs as may
be necessary fully to carry out the
provisions of Sections 573.03 and
573.04. Council may by resolution
prescribe requirements for construction or repairs additional to those
specified in this section, in order
that the requirements of any particular or peculiar condition may be
met. All wharves, docks, piers or
bulkheads shall be constructed with
a sheet piling or other material
approved by the Director of Port
Control or Harbormaster forming a
sandproof joint, either tongued and
grooved or ship lap sheeting or two
courses of sheet piling driven so as
to break joints, the total thickness
of sheeting in all cases to be not

July 9, 2008
less than six inches. If this sheeting
is less than five feet from the face
of that portion nearest the channel
of the dock it shall be directly supported by at least four trimmers or
timbers placed longitudinally; two
above water and one placed about
six feet below the water line and
another at least twelve feet below
the water line; these trimmers to be
supported by piling at least fortyfive feet in length and not farther
apart than three and one-half feet
from center to center, each pile to
be securely anchored.
The sheet piling shall be of such
length as to extend at least thirty
feet below the City base of levels,
or such greater length as shall
effectually retain the earth or bank
from washing or sliding into the
River by reason of the action of the
current or other cause. The heads of
the anchor bolts, if secured to the
front row of piling, shall either be
countersunk into the piles or protected by a waling strip on the front
of the piles. All variations in the
height of the adjoining sections of
any dock or series of docks shall be
provided for by proper slopes or
inclines, which inclines shall not
exceed a grade of ten feet in 100
feet, and no abrupt changes of elevation shall be made. All details of
wharf, dock, pier or bulkhead construction not provided for in this
section shall be subject to the
approval of the Director of Port Control. No wharf, dock, pier, bulkhead,
protection or revetment shall be constructed, repaired or renewed along
the Cuyahoga River, the old ship
channel, the Standard Oil slip or in
or along the outer harbor and lakefront (except that portion of the
outer harbor and lakefront under
the jurisdiction of the United States
Government) without first securing
written permission from the Director, which permission shall only be
given after submitting to the Director detailed plans of the proposed
construction.
Section 573.10 Responsibilities of
Abutting Property Owners
(a) Every owner or occupant of
premises abutting on the harbor
shall at all times keep the wharves
and docks, bulkheads and embankments on the premises in good
repair and safe condition. Whoever
violates this section shall be held
liable for all damages to persons or
property by reason of such unsafe
conditions or wharves and docks.
(b) No later than May 31, 2001,
every
owner
of
any
property,
whether improved or not, abutting
the Cuyahoga River from the Norfolk Southern Bridge south on the
river to the Center St. Bridge and
every owner of any property on
which alcohol is sold abutting the
Cuyahoga River or Old River, where
the vertical rise prevents egress to
the shore, shall install and maintain
at least one ladder facilitating
access from the river to the shore
per one hundred fifty linear feet
(150') of property along the shoreline, but no less than one ladder per
property. Owners of property on the
portion of Whiskey Island that
abuts the Cuyahoga River south of
the Norfolk Southern Bridge where
the vertical rise prevents egress to

The City Record
the shore are excluded from the
above requirement, except for owners of property abutting the river on
which alcohol is sold. The bottom of
the ladder shall reach a depth of
two feet (2') below the mean low
water level, which is five hundred
and sixty nine and two-tenths feet
(569.2') above sea level. The top of
the ladder shall terminate no less
than one foot (1') above the mean
high water level, which is five hundred and seventy-four and three
tenths feet (574.3') above sea level,
and shall be designed to facilitate
safe egress to the shore. The ladders
shall be constructed of durable,
marine compatible materials. All
required permits shall be obtained
for installation of the ladders and a
Certificate of Appropriateness shall
be obtained from the City. The
review process for the Certificate of
Appropriateness shall include review of the design of the ladders by
the City Planning Commission and
the Division of Building and Housing. The City Planning Commission
shall refer an application for a Certificate of Appropriateness to the
local design review committee. Upon
receipt of a recommendation from
the local design review committee,
the City Planning Commission shall
review the application at the next
regularly scheduled City Planning
Commission meeting.
(c) No later than May 31, 2001,
every occupant of property, whether
improved or not, abutting the Cuyahoga River from the Norfolk Southern Bridge south on the Cuyahoga
River to the Center St. Bridge, every
occupant of any property on which
alcohol is sold abutting the Cuyahoga River or Old River, every occupant of property, whether improved
or not, abutting a deck that abuts
the Cuyahoga River from the Norfolk Southern Bridge south on the
river to the Center St. Bridge, and
every occupant of any property on
which alcohol is sold abutting a
deck that abuts the Cuyahoga River
or Old River shall provide and maintain at least one serviceable thirtyinch ring life buoy, or approved rescue line-throwing bag, per one hundred fifty linear feet (150') of property along the shoreline. Occupants
of
property
on
the
portion
of
Whiskey Island that abuts the Cuyahoga River, or that abuts a deck
that abuts the Cuyahoga River,
south
of
the
Norfolk
Southern
Bridge, are excluded from the above
requirement, except for occupants of
property abutting the river, or abutting a deck that abuts the river, on
which alcohol is sold. There shall be
no less than one ring buoy or
approved rescue line-throwing bag
per business establishment located
within the area described above. At
least seventy-five feet (75') of suitable floating line shall be attached
to each ring buoy or line-throwing
bag. The ring buoy or line-throwing
bag shall be accessible to the public at or near the bank of the river.
(d) No later than May 31, 2001,
every occupant of improved property abutting the Cuyahoga River or
Old River or abutting a deck that
abuts the Cuyahoga River or Old
River and containing a commercial
establishment selling alcohol shall
provide at least one twelve foot

1469

93
(12') minimum length pole to be
used to retrieve persons or property
from the water and at least one
portable hand-held lantern of sufficient power to identify floating
objects in the water at a minimum
distance of fifty feet (50'). The pole
and portable light may be accessible to employees only.
(e) The denial of a Certificate of
Appropriateness may be appealed to
the Board of Zoning Appeals consistent with the Charter, ordinances
and rules applicable to that Board.
(f) There shall be a chart conspicuously posted to indicate which
individuals will be responsible for
monitoring compliance of this section.
(g) Whoever violates this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
Section 573.99 Penalty
(a) Whoever violates Sections
573.01, 573.02, 573.03, 573.04 or 573.10
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which an offense
occurs or continues, after notification by the Director of Port Control
or the Harbormaster of a claim for
violation.
(b) Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty is provided shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which an offense
occurs or continues, after notification by the Director of Port Control
or the Harbormaster of a claim for
violation.
Section 2. That the following
existing sections of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 573.02, 573.04, and 573.05,
as amended by Ordinance No. 148454, passed June 21, 1954,
Section 573.10, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1485-00, passed June
21, 2000, and
Section 573.99, as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September
22, 1924,
are repealed.
Section 3. That unless this Council authorizes, through additional
legislative authority, the continuation of the authority granted in this
ordinance
to
amended
Sections
573.02 and 573.04 before December
31, 2008, then the following Sections
of the Codified Ordinances shall be
enacted to read as follows:
Section 573.02 Removal of Obstructions; Notice; Enforcement
Whenever it becomes necessary,
in the judgment of Council, to cause
the removal of any obstruction
which was heretofore or is hereafter
placed within the limits of the harbor, as defined in the map of survey
and
ordinance
establishing
the
same, Council shall cause an order
to be made requiring the removal of
such obstruction. Thereupon the
Director of Port Control shall cause
written notice to be served upon the
owner of any lot or land bounding
or abutting upon the harbor line
who may have caused such obstruction therein or who may have permitted any such obstruction to remain in front of his premises,

94
requiring him to remove the same
without delay. If such person neglects or refuses to remove or cause
the same to be removed within a
reasonable
time
after
receiving
notice of the same, the Director,
upon the order of Council, shall
cause the obstruction to be removed,
and the expense thereof may be
recovered from the owner in a civil
action before any court of competent
jurisdiction.
Section 573.04 Construction or Repair; Notice; Enforcement
(a) Whenever Council declares by
resolution that a condition exists
making it necessary that retaining
works or structures be constructed,
or any existing works or structures,
wharves, docks or bulkheads, or any
portion of the same be repaired
along the established dock lines of
the Cuyahoga River, old ship channel or the Standard Oil slip, in front
of any specified parcel of land abutting such waterway, the Clerk of
Council shall serve, or cause to be
served by some person designated by
him for that purpose, a written
notice of the passage of such resolution upon the owners of such parcel of land, or upon the agents of
such owners. Notice shall be served
and returned, or published in case
the owners or agents cannot be
found within the City, which service,
return and publication shall be in the
manner provided for in RC 727.13.
(b) If the requirements of such
resolution are not observed within
such number of days from the service of notice or expiration of the
publication as are specified in the
resolution of Council, the Director of
Port Control shall have the same
done at the expense of the owner
and in accordance with the plan
attached to the resolution or as
therein described, and shall report
the cost thereof so that the same
may be a lien upon the property and
may be collected as is provided in
RC 727.33.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 863-08.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Flats East Development, L.L.C. to encroach into the
public rights-of-way beneath Main
Avenue and beneath Front Avenue
by installing, using, and maintaining tie backs for a soil retention
system.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to Flats East Development,
L.L.C., 2816 North Moreland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio, 44120 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the public
right-of-way beneath Main Avenue
and
beneath
Front
Avenue
by
installing, using, and maintaining
tie backs for a soil retention system,
at the following locations:
SOIL RETENTION SYSTEM
AT
THE EAST BANK AT THE FLATS
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 191193, and also known as being a part
of Main Avenue, 40 feet wide, and a
part of Front Avenue, 80 feet wide,
and also being further bounded and
described as the following two
parcels:

Parcel One:
Commencing at an iron pin monument found at the center line intersection of Main Avenue, 40 feet
wide, and West 10th Street, of which
said monument bears North 55° 38’
38” East, 404.06 feet from an iron pin
monument found at the center line
intersection of aforementioned Main
Avenue, 40 feet wide, and Old River
Road, 66 feet wide, thence North 55°
38' 38" East along the center line of
said Main Avenue, 40 feet wide, a
distance of 32.99 feet to a point
therein, said point also being the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING for
the area of land hereinafter described, thence clockwise along the
following four courses and distances;
1. Thence North 34° 12' 51" East,
a distance of 20.00 feet to an angle
point;
2. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East,
a distance of 361.63 feet to a point
on the northerly line of Main Avenue, 40 feet wide, and the southwesterly corner of land now or formerly owned by McSweeney Family
LLC, Permanent Parcel Number 10112-003;
3. Thence South 34° 24' 29" East,
a distance of 20.00 feet to a point in
the center line of said Main Avenue,
40 feet wide;
4. Thence South 55° 38' 38" West
along the center line of said Main
Avenue, 40 feet wide, a distance of
361.70 feet to the True Point of
Beginning,
and
containing
7,233
Square Feet (0.1661 acre) of land,
more of less, and subject to all easements, restrictions, and covenants of
record.
Parcel Two:
Commencing at an iron pin monument found at the center line intersection of West 9th Street, 99 feet
wide, and Front Avenue, 80 feet
wide, of which said monument bears
North 65° 41' 12" East, 514.76 feet
from an iron pin monument found at
the center line intersection of aforementioned Front Avenue, 80 feet
wide, and West 10th Street, Thence
South 65° 41' 12" West along the
center line of said Front Avenue, 80
Feet wide, a distance of 213.27 feet

1470

July 9, 2008
to a point therein, said point also
being the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING for the area of land hereinafter described, thence along the
following five courses and distances;
1. Thence South 34° 29' 17" East,
a distance of 32.51 feet to a point on
the southerly line of Front Avenue,
80 feet wide, the northwesterly corner of land now or formerly owned
by Front-9th Street Properties LLC,
Permanent Parcel Number 101-12-001
& 002, and the northeasterly corner
of land now or formerly owned by
FED/Main Street LLC, Permanent
Parcel Number 101-12-007;
2. Thence South 65° 41' 12" West
along the southerly line of said
Front Avenue, 80 feet wide, and
along the northerly line of said
FED/Main Street LLC, a distance of
274.24 feet to a point;
3. Thence North 24° 19' 35" West,
a distance of 80.00 feet to a point on
the northerly line of aforementioned
Front Avenue, 80 feet wide, and a
point on the southerly line of land
now or formerly owned by Flats
East Development LLC, Permanent
Parcel Number 101-01-005;
4. Thence North 65° 41' 12" East
along the northerly line of said
Front Avenue, 80 feet wide, and
along the southerly line of said
Flats East Development LLC, and
its northeasterly prolongation, a distance of 259.90 feet to a point in the
southerly line of Parcel “C” of a Lot
Split, as recorded in Volume 355 of
maps, pages 50-51 of Cuyahoga
County Deed Records, Permanent
Parcel Number 101-01-013;
5. Thence South 34° 29' 17" East,
a distance of 48.77 feet to the True
Point of Beginning, and containing
21,365 Square Feet (0.4905 acre) of
land, more or less, and subject to all
easements,
restrictions,
and
covenants of record.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD 83
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, Permittee has
properly
indemnified
the
City
against any loss that may result
from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency mea-

July 9, 2008
sure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 869-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 531-07,
passed April 23, 2007, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1946-07, passed November 26, 2007, relating to purchasing
property at 1550 Superior Avenue to
develop a transitional housing facility for men, authorizing a purchase
agreement with Lake Erie Motel,
Inc. for the acquisition of furniture
and fixtures; and authorizing the
public improvement of renovating
the facility at 1550 Superior Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 8 of Ordinance No. 531-07, passed April 23,
2007, as amended by Ordinance No.
1946-07, passed November 26, 2007, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 8. That the total aggregate costs of the property acquisition, purchase agreement, rehabilitation and relocation payments authorized shall not exceed $3,579,000 and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 13 SF
610 and 13 SF 929, Request Nos.
149543 and 178642.
Section 2. That existing Section 8
of Ordinance No. 531-07, passed April
23, 2007, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1946-07, passed November 26,
2007, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 870-08.
By Council Members Polensek,
Pierce Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase property
for future redevelopment at 789 East
157th Street, 1491 East 173rd Street,
and 1452 Clermont, for the Department of Community Development;
and authorizing the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies to convey
the property to Collinwood Nottingham Villages Development Corporation, or its designee, which is not
needed for public use.

The City Record
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
purchase of property located at 789
East 157th Street, 1491 East 173rd
Street, and 1452 Clermont for future
redevelopment; and
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
sale of the property to Collinwood
Nottingham Villages Development
Corporation, or its designee (the
“Redeveloper”) which is not needed
for public use, for the public purpose of future redevelopment of the
property; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the following described
property for future redevelopment:
(789 East 157th Street)
P. P. No. 115-24-094
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being the
Northerly 36 feet of Sublot No. 80
and the Southerly 4 feet of the
Sublot No. 81 in the Ruple Heir’s second Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township Lot No. 42 in the
Tract No. 10, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 11 of Maps,
Page
52
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land having a frontage of
40 feet on the Easterly side of East
157th
Street
(formerly
Adelbert
Street) and extending back of equal
width 150 feet deep as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
(1491 East 173rd Street)
P. P. No. 116-25-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
102 on the Elworthy-Helwick Company’s Home Owners Allotment of
part of Original Euclid Township
Tract No. 15, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 58 of Maps,
Page
12
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, as appears by said plat.
(1452 Clermont)
P. P. No. 116-29-134
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
111 in the S.H. Kleinman’s St. Clair
Heights Allotment of part of Original Euclid Township Tract No. 15,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 46 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being a
parcel of land 40 feet front on the
Southwesterly
side
of
Clermont
Road, N.E., and extending back 82.29
feet on the Northwesterly line, 83.61
feet on the Southeasterly line, and
having a rear line of 40.02 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the

1471

95
City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire and to convey the
property and to employ and pay all
fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, environmental
audits, and all other costs necessary
for the acquisition of the property.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for this property shall not
exceed $1.00, and other valuable consideration, determined to be fair
market value.
Section 4. That all costs of acquisition of land shall be paid from
Fund No. 14.
Section 5. That this Council finds
that the conveyance to the Redeveloper constitutes a public use of the
property for the purposes of redevelopment.
Section 6. That at the direction of
the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to convey the property
previously described in this ordinance to the Redeveloper, for $1.00,
and other valuable consideration,
which is determined to be fair market value by the Board of Control,
taking into account all restrictions,
reversionary interests and similar
encumbrances placed by the City of
Cleveland
in
the
deed
of
conveyance.
Section 7. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain necessary provisions,
including
restrictive
reversionary
interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control or Director of Law,
which shall protect the parties as
their respective interests require
and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any
advertising signs or billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 871-08.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Pierce Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a development agreement with FBE Inc. for
the Morgana East Project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a development
agreement with FBE Inc. to assist
with the development of residential
and commercial property located on
East 71st to East 74th Streets between Aetna and Union Avenue and
known as Morgana East Project.

96
Section 2. That the Directors of
Community Development and Law,
and such appropriate City officials
are authorized to execute the document and take such other actions as
may be necessary or appropriate in
connection with carrying out the
terms of the development agreement.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 889-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Woodhill Road and
Holton Avenue to Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-25-002
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 1, Hower Subdivision, of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot Nos. 424 and 425, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and also part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 425,
together forming a parcel of land
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
Woodhill Road, S.E. (formerly Newburgh Street) at the Northeasterly
corner of land conveyed to Margaret Zoldak, by deed dated January 5, 1940, recorded in Volume
5046, Page 129 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Northerly along the

The City Record
Westerly line of Woodhill Road,
S.E., 43.50 feet to the Northeasterly
corner of land conveyed to Gustav
Strelau, by deed dated March 13,
1889, and recorded in Volume 440,
Page
456
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Westerly along the
Northerly line of land so conveyed,
about 140 feet to the northwesterly
corner thereof; thence Southerly
along the Westerly line of land so
conveyed, about 44 feet to the
Northwesterly corner of land conveyed to Margaret Zoldak, as aforesaid; thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of land so conveyed
to Margaret Zoldak, to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 126-25-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio: And known as being all of
Sublot No. 2 and the Southerly 40
feet of Sublot No. 1 in Elizabeth and
Jeremiah M. Hower’s Subdivision of
a part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot Nos. 424 and 425, as shown by
the recorded plat of said subdivision
in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 2 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
said
Sublot No. 2 and Southerly 40 feet of
Sublot No. 1 is described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner
of Sublot No. 2; thence Northeasterly along the Southeasterly line of
said Sublot Nos. 1 and 2, 86 feet;
thence Northwesterly along a line
parallel with the Southerly line of
Sublot No. 1 to a point in the Northerly line of Sublot No. 1; thence
along said Northerly line to the
northwest corner thereof; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
said Sublot Nos. 1 and 2, 82.27 feet
to the Southwest corner of Sublot
No. 2; thence Southeasterly along
the Southerly line of said Sublot No.
2, 170-3/12 feet to the place of beginning, and forming a parcel of land
having a frontage of 86 feet on the
Westerly side of Woodhill Road S.E.
(formerly Woodland Hills Avenue),
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being part of
Sublot No. 1 in Elizabeth and Jeremiah M. Hower’s Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
Nos. 424 and 425, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
2
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
Woodhill Road, S.E., (formerly Newburgh Street) at a point which is
distant 40 feet Northerly measured
along said Westerly line from the
Southeasterly corner of said Sublot
No. 1, said point being also the
Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to Gustav Strelau by deed
dated March 13, 1889 and recorded
in Volume 440, Page 456 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Northerly along said Westerly line of
Woodhill Road (S.E.) 6 inches;
thence Westerly and parallel with
the Southerly line of land so conveyed to Gustav Strelau to the Westerly line thereof; thence Southerly
along the Westerly line of land so
conveyed to Gustav Strelau to the
Southwesterly corner thereof; thence
Easterly along the Southerly line of

1472

July 9, 2008
land so conveyed 148 feet to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P. P. No. 126-25-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
3. in Elizabeth Hower’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot Nos. 424 and 425, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 30 feet front on
the Westerly side of Woodhill Road
S.E. (formerly Woodland Hills Avenue), and extending back 170 feet,
4 inches deep on the Northerly line,
148 feet, 4 inches deep on the
Southerly line, and 88 feet, 7-1/2
inches wide in the rear, as appears
by said plat.
P. P. No. 126-25-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot
No. 4 in the Elizabeth and S. M.
Hower’s Subdivision of part of Original 100 Acre Lot Nos. 424 and 425,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Northerly side of
Holton Avenue, S.E., and extending
back 171.75 feet on the Easterly line,
171.62 feet on the Westerly line, and
having a rear line of 40 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

The City Record

July 9, 2008

97

Ord. No. 933-08.
By Council Members Kelley and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to make alterations and modifications in Contract No. 66031 for Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co., Inc. for the relocation of underground utility installments
beneath Cargo Road.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port Control is authorized to make the following alterations and modifications
in Contract No. 66031 with Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co., Inc. for the relocation of underground utility installments beneath Cargo Road, for the Department of Port Control:
Subsidiary Additions
Relocation of 12” sanitary sewer pipe
Unforeseen U/G utilities encountered atContinental/Air Services parking lot
Repair cost for Continental gate openers
Unforeseen U/G utilities encountered at Five Points Road
Sawcut of existing ASIG driveway apron
Re-installation of existing guardrail
Full Depth concrete bid item extra quantities
Type 2B concrete curb replacement
Subsidiary Additions

$

4,080.00
26,110.80
5,849.40
4,232.80
400.00
954.00
7,670.00
+ 1,828.00
$ 51,125.00

Subsidiary Credits
Subsidiary Additions
Remaining Contingency

$ 51,125.00
- 10,125.00
$ 41,000.00

Total Subsidiary Additions
Original Contract Price
Total Subsidiary Additions
Total Revised Contract Amount

$1,469,935.75
+ 41,000.00
$1,510,935.75

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the Director of Port Control, countersigned by the Mayor,
and consented to by the surety on the contract, which price to be paid has been agreed on in writing and signed
by the Director of Port Control and the Contractor. This alteration will cause an increase in the amount of the
original contract in the sum of $41,000.00, to be paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 105, 60 SF 126, 60 SF 128, and 60 SF
288, Request No. 175220.
Section 2. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 934-08.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Cudell Improvement
Inc. to encroach into the public right-of-way of West 98th Street with 14 banners and to be attached to Cleveland
Public Power utility poles (by separate permission).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of Council,
to Cudell Improvement Inc., 11650 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102 (“Permittee”), to encroach into the public
right-of-way above West 98th Street by installing, using, and maintaining 14 banners to be attached to Cleveland
Public Power utility poles (by separate permission), locations more fully described as follows:
LOCATION
West 98th Street (West)
1st Pole South of Madison Avenue
2012
2022
2034
2046
2054
2088
2110
West 98th Street (East)
2119
2145
2161
N.E. Corner Macon Avenue
2191
2223

1473

POLE NUMBER

POLE OWNER

No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No

Tag
Tag
Tag
Tag
Tag
Tag
Tag
Tag

CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP

EOM-2-6
EOM-2-8
ECM-2-9
27431
27428
162A13

CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP

98

The City Record

July 9, 2008

Section 2. That Permittee may assign the permit only with the written consent of the Director of Public Service.
That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered to grant to Permittee any right, privilege, or
permission to use, or to attach or affix any object to, poles; Permittee shall obtain such permission from the
respective pole owner.
Section 3. That the encroaching structures permitted by this ordinance shall conform to plans and specifications
approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all other required
permits, including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall incorporate
such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The
permit shall be issued only when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, Permittee has properly indemnified the
City against any loss that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 5. That the Permit shall reserve reasonable right of entry to the City.
Section 6. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 935-08.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the Cities Readiness Initiative Program; authorizing the purchase by
one or more requirement and standard contracts of materials, equipment, supplies, and services needed
to implement the program; authorizing the director to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies, entities, and individuals to
implement the program; authorizing
the Director to employ one or more
professional consultants to implement the program; and authorizing
the purchase or lease of television
and radio advertising time and
other media.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $964,445, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the Ohio Department of Health
to conduct the Cities Readiness Initiative (“CRI”) Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 935-08-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the
public hearing on this legislation
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority, is
approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance

into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to
make one or more written standard
purchase
contracts
and
written
requirement contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
period of requirements to be determined by the director, for the necessary items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary to construct the Improvement,
including labor and materials if
necessary for installation, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Convention Center and Stadium, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties. Bids shall be taken in
a manner that permits an award to
be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract
for each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines.
Section 6. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 7. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts or memoranda of understanding with the
Cuyahoga County Board of Health,
MetroHealth, MatherLifeways, and
Assessment Technologies Division

1474

of Easy Graphics Corp. and various
agencies, entities, and individuals to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 9. That the Director of
Public
Health
is
authorized
to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
grant as described in the file, including but not limited to, professional services necessary to provide
marketing, education, and awareness services.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Health from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Health for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Health, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 10. That the director of
Public Health is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the purchase or lease, during the
grant term, of television and radio
advertising time and other media,
for
the
Department
of
Public
Health.
Section 11. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 12. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

July 9, 2008
Ord. No. 936-08.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the YMCA of Greater Cleveland for
the Reach Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $25,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the YMCA of Greater Cleveland to conduct the Reach Program;
that the Director is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in the summary for
the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 936-08-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall deposit the
grant accepted under this ordinance
into a fund or funds designated by
the Director of Finance to implement the program as described in
the file and appropriated for that
purpose.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 937-08.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement
contracts
of
labor,
materials, and services for salting
and
snowplowing
parking
lots,
walkways, and sidewalks at City
health
centers
and
the
Public
Health Administration Building, for
the Division of Health, Department
of Public Health, for a period of two
years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of two years of the necessary items of labor, materials, and
services for salting and snowplowing parking lots, walkways, and
sidewalks at City health centers
and the Public Health Administration Building, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Division of Health, Department of Public Health. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 181605)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Health may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 938-08.
By Council Members Brancatelli
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title of Ordinance No. 1052-07,
passed August 8, 2007; relating to
authorizing the Director of Public
Health to apply for and accept
grants from the Cleveland Foundation and the Woodruff Foundation
for the Integrated Health Initiative
Program; to supplement the ordinance by enacting new Sections 5, 6,
and 7; and to renumber existing Section 5 to new Section 8.

1475

99
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title of Ordinance No. 1052-07, passed August 8,
2007, is amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept grants from
the Cleveland Foundation and the
Woodruff Foundation for the Integrated Health Initiative Program;
authorizing the Director of Public
Health to employ one or more professional consultants to provide education and to provide resources to
health care providers serving the
Greater Cleveland area on methods
of integrating behavioral health into
primary care; and authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies,
entities, or individuals to implement
the grant.
Section 2. That the existing title
of Ordinance No. 1052-07, passed
August 8, 2007, is repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 105207, passed August 8, 2007, is supplemented by enacting new Sections 5,
6, and 7 to read as follows:
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to provide education
and to provide resources to health
care providers serving the Greater
Cleveland area on methods of integrating behavioral health into primary care.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Health from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Health for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Health, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Health is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with or
make payments to agencies, entities,
or individuals to implement the
grant as described in the file.
Section 7. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 4. That existing Section 5
of Ordinance No. 1052-07, passed
August 8, 2007 is renumbered to new
“Section 8”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

The City Record

100
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 939-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts with
Matthew Malec for professional services necessary to provide operational
support for various IT programs and
project management services for the
Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
Matthew Malec for professional services necessary to provide operational support for various IT programs and project management ser-

vices for the Department of Public
Safety on the basis of his proposal
dated May 9, 2008, in the total sum
of $20,000, for the Department of
Public Safety. The contract or contracts shall be paid from Fund No.
20 SF 509, Request No. 160290.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 940-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
Coplogic, Inc. for the purchase of
the Desk Officer Online Reporting
System, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

July 9, 2008
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council determines that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Coplogic, Inc. Therefore the Director
of Public Safety is authorized to
make one or more written contracts
with Coplogic, Inc. on the basis of
its proposal dated April 25, 2008, in
the total sum of $33,000, for the
Desk Officer Online Reporting System, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 10 SF
049, Request No. 171243.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 961-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting new Sections 698A.01 and 698A.99, relating to outdoor sales of tickets of admission to sporting and other events and the
establishment of exclusion and permissive zones for that activity and penalty; and to amend Section 698.06 as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1290-A-43, passed October 22, 1945, relating to ticket brokers.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are supplemented by enacting new Sections
698A.01 and 698A.99 to read as follows:
CHAPTER 698A
OUTDOOR SALES OF TICKETS OF ADMISSION TO SPORTING EVENTS AND OTHER EVENTS
Section 698A.01
Outdoor Sales of Tickets of Admission to Sporting Events and Other Events Restricted;
Penalty
(a) Findings. The activities of vendors of tickets of admission to sporting events and other events in and near
the Central Business District has caused inconvenience and annoyance to persons on their way to the events or
patronizing restaurants and other businesses in the vicinity of the events. At times, pedestrians encounter a gauntlet of ticket vendors employing aggressive sales tactics, or witness sidewalk turf disputes among ticket vendors
that sometimes escalate to physical altercations. The time, place and manner restrictions imposed by this section
are narrowly tailored to respond to this matter of public and governmental interest.
(b) Offense. No person who possesses a ticket or tickets of admission to a sporting event, theater, show or
other event shall, after first being warned by a law enforcement officer to desist, sell, hawk, peddle, display for
sale or solicit another to purchase the ticket or tickets outdoors within the zone identified in division (c) of this
section, except the parts of the zone designated as permissive ticket sales areas, for a period of six hours before
or during any event at the Cleveland State University Convocation Center or Gateway complex or the event regardless of venue to which the ticket or tickets pertain.
(c) Ticket Zone Established. The zone referred to in division (b) of this section and the permissive ticket sales
areas within the zone are shown on the map and set forth by legal description both contained in File No. 96108-A. The Director of Public Safety may, through the issuance of a regulation, modify the boundaries or placement of the zone or permissive ticket sales areas as set forth in the file if the Director determines that such
changes are needed to advance the purposes of this legislation as stated in division (a). Any such regulation
shall take effect fourteen days after its publication in the City Record.
The Director of Public Safety may cause signs to be posted to apprise persons of the existence of the zone and
permissive ticket sales areas established by this section, but the absence of signs or any deficiency of signs shall
not constitute a defense to division (b) of this section provided that the offender, in accordance with division
(b), has first been warned by a law enforcement officer to desist from the proscribed conduct.
Section 698A.99 Penalty
Whoever violates division (b) of Section 698A.01 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on the second offense, and a misdemeanor of the second degree on the third and
any subsequent offense.
Section 2. That Section 698.06, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1290-A-43, passed October 22, 1945, is amended to
read as follows:

1476

July 9, 2008

The City Record

101

Section 698.06 Operating Regulations
The Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses, and any person or persons designated by him, and every police
officer shall enforce the following regulations:
(a) There shall be conspicuously posted and at all times displayed prominently at the location licensed, a price
list showing the price charged by the person, firm or corporation owning, operating or controlling the theater,
place of amusement or entertainment, or the place where the public exhibition, game, contest or performance for
which a ticket is being sold by such licensee, together with the price being charged by such licensee for the
resale of such ticket so that all persons visiting such place may readily see the same. The licensee shall also
on request, furnish each purchaser of a ticket with a receipt showing the same information.
(b) No licensee shall pay to any officer or employee of any theater or place of amusement or entertainment or
other place where public exhibitions, games, contests or performances are held, or to any producer or manager
or employee of any theatrical or other exhibition or theatrical company, any commission, gratuity or bonus in
connection with the sale, delivery or payment of tickets or in connection with the business being done by such
licensee in tickets of admission to such places.
Section 3. That existing Section 698.06, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1290-A-43, passed October 22, 1945, is repealed.
Section 4. That the map and legal description contained in the legislative file referenced in division (c) of Section 698A.01 shall be published in the City Record along with the publication of the enacted version of this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.

Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

1477

102

The City Record

Ord. No. 999-08.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Cimperman, Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 2 and 3 of Ordinance No.
1817-07, passed December 3, 2007,
relating to a contract with BEDO,
LLC, or its designee, to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the residential rehabilitation component of the University Lofts project, located at 2010
and 2020 Euclid Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 2 and 3 of
Ordinance No. 1817-07, passed December 3, 2007, are amended to read as
follows:
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the terms
set forth in the Summary contained
in File No. 1817-07-B, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation, and are
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract shall not exceed Eight Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($800,000), and
shall be paid from Fund No. 10 SF
545, which funds are appropriated for
this purpose, Request No. 178617.
Section 2. That existing Sections 2
and 3 of Ordinance No. 1817-07,
passed December 3, 2007, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each
or any combination of the items as
the Board of Control determines.
Alternate bids for a period less than
the specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is
made for the requirements for the
entire term. The Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term of
two years instead of one year when
there is a financial advantage to the
City. For purposes of this ordinance,
a financial advantage shall be determined by the Director of Public Utilities by comparing the bids received
for both terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 169177)
Section 3. That under Section 108(b)
of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance may be made
through
cooperative
agreements
using state procedures. The Director
of Public Utilities may sign all documents with the State of Ohio or any
of its political subdivisions that are
necessary to make the purchases, and
may enter into one or more contracts
with the vendors selected through
that cooperative process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 1004-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of pipe-type
cable, and labor and materials to
repair, replace, and maintain existing pipe-type cable, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for a one
or two-year period of the necessary
items of pipe-type cable, and labor
and materials to repair, replace, and
maintain existing pipe-type cable, in
the approximate amount as purchased during the preceding term, to
be purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Cleveland

Ord. No. 1005-08.
By Council Members Kelley, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 139.16 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1406-07,
passed November 12, 2007, relating
to applying and accepting federal
and state grants and other funding.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 139.16 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1406-07, passed November 12, 2007,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 139.16
Applying and Accepting Federal and State Grants
and Other Funding
The Director of Port Control is
authorized to apply for and accept
grants and other funding from the
United States of America and the
State of Ohio, as they become available, to fund projects related to the

1478

July 9, 2008
operations of the various divisions
of the Department of Port Control.
The Director is further authorized
to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to apply for,
accept and receive grants and
other funding; provided that the
City shall follow all applicable federal or state regulations; and that
any funds are appropriated for the
purposes in the applications for the
grants, applications for other funding, or any amendments thereto.
The Director of Port Control shall
notify this Council, through its
Clerk, of any funds accepted under
the authority of this section, on
receipt of each award.
The Director of Port Control is
further
authorized
to
pay
cash
matching funds for projects approved by the above-named grantors
for grant funding and other funding.
The matching funds shall be paid
from funds appropriated for the use
of the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control and,
when permitted by law and indentures, from any existing or future
revenue bond funds, grant proceeds
and PFC authorizations.
Section 2. That existing Section
139.16 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1406-07, passed
November 12, 2007, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 1006-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County for the 2006 Law
Enforcement Terrorism Protection
Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $16,000, and any
other funds that may become available during the grant term from
Cuyahoga County to conduct the 2006
Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection (“LETPP”) Program; that the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the grant agreement
and award letter for the grant contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the grant agreement and award letter for the grant,
File No. 1006-08-A, made a part of
this ordinance as if fully rewritten,
as presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects and shall not
be changed without additional legislative authority.

July 9, 2008
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 1007-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Ohio Department of Health for the
2008 Regional Medical Response System Program; authorizing the Director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals; and authorizing
the purchase by one or more requirement or standard contracts of materials, equipment, services, and supplies, including training, conducting
exercises, and program planning,
needed to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
amount of $94,230, from Ohio Department of Health to conduct the 2008
Regional Medical Response System
(RMRS) Program; that the Director
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
notice of award for the grant contained in the file described below.
Section 2. That the notice of
award for the grant, File No. 100708-A, made a part of this ordinance
as if fully rewritten, as presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals to implement the grant as
described in the file.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written standard purchase contracts and written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant period
of the necessary items of materials,
equipment, services, and supplies,
including training, conducting exercises, and program planning, needed
to implement the grant, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Department of Public Safety. Bids shall be taken in a manner

The City Record
that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 6. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase, which
purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the
contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 7. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 8. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized in this
ordinance shall be paid from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 1008-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Ohio Department of Public Safety
for the 2006 Buffer Zone Protection
Program; authorizing the purchase
by one or more requirement contracts of materials, equipment, supplies and services; authorizing the
Director to employ one or more professional consultants; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies,
entities,
or
individuals
to
implement the grant, for the Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to apply for
and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $179,550, and any
other funds that may become available during the grant term from the
Ohio Department of Public Safety to
conduct the 2006 Buffer Zone Protection Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
summary for the grant contained in
the file described below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1008-08-A, made a

1479

103
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant term of the necessary
items of materials, equipment, supplies and services, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis for the
Department of Public Safety. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for
all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 5. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public
Safety
is
authorized
to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
grant as described in the file.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Safety from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Safety for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved
by the Director of Public Safety,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with or
make payments to agencies, entities,
or individuals to implement the
grant as described in the file.

The City Record

104
Section 9. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.

Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately

July 9, 2008
upon its passage and approval by the
Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect
and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 1009-08.
By Council Members Lewis and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 13 and 24 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, relating to
compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 13 and 24 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, are amended to read as follows:
Section 13. International Union of Painters and Allied Trades, District 6. That the salaries and compensation
in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Sign Painter ..................................................................................
Sign Painter Unit Leader ........................................................
Spray Painter ...............................................................................
Traffic Sign and Marking Supervisor ................................
Traffic Sign Process Operator ...............................................

Minimum
$23.23
$24.23
$20.83
$13.28
$13.28

Maximum
$31.04
$33.43
$28.69
$24.33
$24.36

Section 24. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39. That the salaries and the
compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the
schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.

Apprentice Cable Splicer..........................................................
Apprentice Lineman ...................................................................
Cable Foreman .............................................................................
Cable Splicer .................................................................................
Cable Splicer Helper..................................................................
Cable Splicer I .............................................................................
Cable Splicer II ...........................................................................
Dispatcher Electric System Operator ..................................
Electric Meter Industrial Installer ......................................
Electric Meter Instrument Specialist and
General Tester .........................................................................
Electric Meter Service Foremen............................................
Electric Meter Service Installer I ........................................
Electric Meter Service Installer II ......................................
Electric Meterman Apprentice ...............................................
Electric Motor and Transformer Repairman ...................
Electric Switchboard Operator Foreman ...........................
Electric Transmission and Distribution
Inspector .....................................................................................
Foreman Low Tension ..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic ..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic Apprentice .......................................
Junior Electric Switchboard Operator ................................
Line Clearance Man ...................................................................
Line Foreman ...............................................................................
Line Helper Driver.....................................................................
Line Switchman ...........................................................................
Leader Lineman Low-Tension ................................................
Lineman ..........................................................................................
Lineman Leader...........................................................................
Low Tension Lineman ..............................................................
Low Tension Lineman Apprentice .......................................
Low Tension Trouble Lineman .............................................
Police Division Trouble Lineman.........................................
Safety Signal Trouble Lineman ............................................
Senior Cable Splicer...................................................................
Senior Electric Switchboard Operator.................................
Senior Lineman ............................................................................
Signal System Powerman ........................................................
Telecommunications Technician ...........................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician .......................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician 2 ...................................
Transformer Repairman Foreman........................................
Trouble Lineman.........................................................................
Underground Conduit Foreman .............................................

Minimum
$22.22
$22.39
$31.45
$17.46
$20.44
$28.15
$17.14
$26.52
$28.05

Maximum
$24.40
$24.58
$32.60
$27.32
$23.76
$29.24
$26.81
$28.34
$29.13

$28.37
$31.45
$26.12
$24.35
$21.91
$17.38
$31.45

$29.45
$32.60
$27.69
$25.35
$24.04
$27.16
$32.60

$28.15
$30.91
$17.38
$22.22
$22.36
$22.00
$31.45
$17.73
$30.16
$29.99
$28.15
$26.27
$29.99
$21.95
$29.40
$19.19
$19.19
$29.65
$24.63
$29.65
$19.54
$29.40
$31.11
$30.60
$31.45
$29.65
$31.45

$29.76
$32.04
$27.68
$24.40
$23.33
$24.24
$32.60
$23.77
$32.05
$31.11
$29.24
$27.31
$31.11
$23.72
$30.50
$29.96
$29.96
$30.76
$25.65
$30.76
$30.51
$30.50
$32.25
$31.73
$32.60
$31.78
$32.60

Section 2. That existing Sections 13 and 24 of Ordinance No. 947-08, passed June 9, 2008, are repealed.

1480

July 9, 2008

The City Record

105

Section 3. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 1010-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Visual Evidence/E-Discovery LLC to provide
for the removal of the Council computer server, forensic imaging of
five specific personal computer drives, indexing of data recovered
therefrom and organizing such data
in an accessible format for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Visual Evidence/EDiscovery LLC to provide for the
removal of the Council computer
server, forensic imaging of five specific
personal
computer
drives,
indexing of data recovered therefrom and organizing such data in an
accessible format for Cleveland City
Council. This agreement shall be
entered into as of May 10, 2008 and
shall terminate upon completion of
the project. The agreement shall be
certified for $25,000.00 and from
fund numbers 632000-01-010100.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 1022-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing a Cooperative Agreement relating to the Series A Bonds; accepting a completion guaranty; and
authorizing and approving related
matters.
Whereas, Ohio Revised Code Sections 5709.40, 5709.42 and 5709.43
(collectively, the “Act”) provide that
the Council of the City may describe
public improvements to be made
that directly benefit certain parcels
of real property, declare improvements with respect to such parcels
located in the City to be a public
purpose, thereby authorizing the
exemption of those improvements
from real property taxation for a
period of time, and provide for the
making of service payments in lieu
of taxes by the owner of such
parcels; and

Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1645-05 passed by the Council of
the City on October 31, 2005 (the
“TIF Ordinance”), this Council designated improvements to certain
parcels in the City described therein (the “TIF Area”) to be a public
purpose under the Act; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Sections 4582.01 through
4582.20, the City has requested the
assistance of the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (the
“Port Authority”) in financing costs
of certain public improvements; and
Whereas, the City intends to enter
into a Cooperative Agreement (the
“Series A Cooperative Agreement”)
with the Port Authority, the Flats
East Development LLC (the “Developer”), FED/Main Street LLC, The
Flats East New Community Development Authority and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A. (the “Trustee”) to provide for,
among other things, (i) the issuance
of bonds (the “Series A Bonds”) by
the Port Authority in an estimated
amount not to exceed $150,000,000 to
pay costs of the acquisition, construction and installation of certain
public street, utility and parking
improvements described in the Cooperative Agreement (the “Public Improvements”), (ii) the payment of
service payments in lieu of taxes
(the “Service Payments”) by the
Developer and FED/Main Street
LLC pursuant to the TIF Ordinance,
(iii) disbursement of the proceeds of
the Series A Bonds for the acquisition and construction of the Public
Improvements and (iv) the transfer
of the Service Payments by the City
to the Trustee to pay principal and
interest and other costs relating to
the Series A Bonds; and
Whereas, to provide for the security for the Series A Bonds and
related matters, the City intends to
enter into an Agreement with the
Cuyahoga County Treasurer (the
“Tax Lien Agreement”), and to
accept one or more completion guaranties from the Developer (the
“Completion Guaranty”); and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that approving the
Series A Cooperative Agreement is
necessary to finance the Public
Improvements and to provide for
needed public improvements and
eliminate blighted conditions and
prevent the recurrence of blight;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1.
Determinations by
Council.
This Council finds and
determines as follows:
(a)
Public Purpose.
The acquisition, construction and installation

1481

of the Public Improvements and the
use of Service Payments to provide
for debt service on the Series A
Bonds serves a proper public municipal purpose and is necessary to provide for needed public streets and
parking that will improve the flow
of pedestrian and vehicular traffic
in the TIF Area, to eliminate
blighted conditions and prevent the
recurrence of blight in the TIF Area
and for the development of the private improvements described in the
Series A Cooperative Agreement.
(b) Cooperative Agreement. It is
necessary, proper and in the best
interest of the City to authorize the
Series A Cooperative Agreement to
provide for, among other things, (i)
the issuance of the Series A Bonds
by the Port Authority, which may
bear interest at a fixed or variable
rate as determined by the Port
Authority and consistent with the
Series A Cooperative Agreement, to
pay costs of the acquisition, construction and installation of the
Public Improvements, (ii) the payment of Service Payments in lieu of
taxes
by
the
Developer
and
FED/Main Street LLC pursuant to
the TIF Ordinance, (iv) disbursement of the proceeds of the Series
A Bonds for the acquisition and construction of the Public Improvements and (v) the transfer of the
Service Payments by the City to the
Trustee to pay principal and interest and other costs relating to the
Series A Bonds.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Series A
Bonds and the signing and delivery
of the Series A Cooperative Agreement
in
connection
with
such
issuance for the purpose provided in
this Ordinance serves a proper, public, municipal purpose.
Section 2. Authorization of Series
A Cooperative Agreement; Tax Lien
Agreement and Additional Documents. In connection with the issuance of the Series A Bonds, either
the Director of Economic Development or the Director of Finance is
authorized, in the name and on
behalf of the City, to sign and deliver the Series A Cooperative Agreement, approved as to form and correctness by the Director of Law, in
the form in File No. 1022-08-A,
together with such changes that are
not adverse to the City as may be
approved by the officers signing the
same on behalf of the City. The
determination by those officers that
the Series A Cooperative Agreement
is not adverse to the City shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery of that Series A
Cooperative Agreement by those
officers.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Clerk, the Director of
Law and other City officials are
authorized to sign and deliver and
accept delivery of such instruments,

106
certificates and documents as are
necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance and the Series A Cooperative Agreement. The Mayor, the
Director of Economic Development,
the Director of Finance, or any other
City officials, as appropriate, are further authorized to sign and deliver a
Tax Lien Agreement with the Cuyahoga County Treasurer in furtherance of the transactions.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate,
are authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the
City and cooperate with the Port
Authority to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for
the delivery of the Series A Bonds
to the Original Purchasers and to
take all actions necessary to effect
due
signing,
authentication
and
delivery of the Series A Bonds under
the terms of this Ordinance and the
Series A Cooperative Agreement.
The Clerk of Council or other appropriate official of the City shall furnish the Original Purchasers a true
transcript of proceedings certified
by the Clerk or other official, of all
proceedings had with reference to
the TIF Ordinance and the authorization of the Series A Cooperative
Agreement.
Section 3.
Completion Guaranty.
This Council hereby approves the
acceptance of a Completion Guaranty from the Developer. The Director
of Finance is authorized to sign a
Completion Guaranty on behalf of
the City in form and substance
approved by the Director of Law as
being consistent with the objectives
and requirements of this Ordinance,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Completion Guaranty.
Section 4. Interpretation. Any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of
the City which are inconsistent with
the provisions of this Ordinance
shall not apply to the Series A
Bonds or matters authorized herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall
be applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding
bonds,
certificates
of
indebtedness,
other
obligations,
indentures, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City.
Section 5.
Validity.
It is found
and determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that all applicable provisions of the City’s Charter
and the rules of this Council have
been fully complied with and this
Ordinance was passed in conformity
therewith.
Section 6. Severability. Each section of this Ordinance and each subdivision or paragraph of any section
is hereby declared to be independent, and the finding or holding of
any section or any subdivision or
paragraph of any section to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed
or held to affect the validity of any
other section, subdivision or paragraph of this Ordinance.
Section 7. Compliance with Open
Meeting Law.
It is hereby found

The City Record
and determined that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken in an open
meeting of this Council, and that all
deliberations of this Council and of
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, in compliance with all applicable legal
requirements.
Section 8. Emergency. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all the members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its adoption and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 1023-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing a Cooperative Agreement relating to the Series B Bonds; approving terms of the Series B Bonds;
accepting a completion guaranty;
and authorizing and approving related matters.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 656-06 passed by the Council of
the City on April 24, 2006, this Council
authorized
the
Director
of
Finance to pay the debt service on
not to exceed $11,000,000 of obligations issued by the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (“Port
Authority”), subject to annual appropriation, for the purpose of constructing various public improvements within the Flats East Bank
Community Plan area, as described
in Ordinance No. 1644-05, passed
October
17,
2005,
including
the
authority to execute a cooperative
agreement and all other documents
necessary to pay the debt service,
provided the City does not issue the
obligations and provided the City
enters into a Development Agreement with the Port Authority and
Flats East Development LLC; and
Whereas,
the
City,
the
Port
Authority and Flats East Development LLC have entered into a Project Development Agreement dated
May 22, 2006, as amended (the
“Development Agreement”); and
Whereas, the City has requested
that the Port Authority issue bonds
(“Series A Bonds”) in order to provide for the acquisition, construction
and installation of certain public
infrastructure and parking improvements by the Port Authority (“Public Improvements”) under the terms
of a Cooperative Agreement to be
entered into among the City, the
Port Authority, Flats East Development LLC, FED/Main Street LLC,
The Flats East New Community
Development Authority and The
Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as trustee for the
Series A Bonds; and
Whereas, the City has requested
that the Port Authority also issue

1482

July 9, 2008
bonds in the aggregate principal
amount of not to exceed $11,000,000
(“Series B Bonds”) in order to
finance the acquisition of certain
real property (“Property”) to be
acquired by the City and to be used
as public streets, upon which Property a portion of the Public Improvements shall be constructed (the
“Series B Project”) under the terms
of a Cooperative Agreement to be
entered into among the City, the
Port Authority, Flats East Development LLC and The Bank of New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.,
as trustee (“Series B Cooperative
Agreement”); and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the payment of
debt service on the Series B Bonds,
subject to annual appropriation, in
accordance with the terms of the
Series B Cooperative Agreement and
as provided in this Ordinance, and to
authorize the signing of the Series B
Cooperative Agreement; and
Whereas, the City intends to accept one or more completion guaranties from the Developer (the
“Completion Guaranty”) guarantying
completion
of
the
Public
Improvements; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that approving the
Series B Cooperative Agreement is
necessary to finance the Series B
Project to provide for needed City
streets that will improve the flow of
traffic and eliminate blighted conditions and prevent the recurrence
of blight in the Flats East Bank
Community Plan area; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1.
Definitions.
In addition to the words and terms defined
in the Series B Cooperative Agreement, the following words and terms
shall have the following meanings
unless the context or use clearly
indicates another or different meaning or intent:
“Appropriation Payments” means
the payment to be made by the City
pursuant to, and in accordance with
the schedule attached to, the Series
B Cooperative Agreement, which
payments are subject to annual
appropriation by this Council.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby securities purchase
agreement or other credit enhancement, support or liquidity device
used to enhance the security or
liquidity of any Series B Bonds.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance
of the City, from time to time, pursuant to Section 8 of this Ordinance.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to the Series B Bonds, the
financial institutions identified as
such in the Bond Purchase Agreement.
“Bond Purchase Agreement” means,
with respect to the Series B Bonds,
the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement
among the City, the Port Authority,

July 9, 2008
the Trustee and the Original Purchasers for the Series B Bonds or a
representative of those Original Purchasers.
“Purchase
Price”
means,
with
respect to the Series B Bonds, the
amount specified in the Bond Purchase Agreement to be paid by the
Original Purchasers for the purchase of the Series B Bonds, provided that amount shall be not less
than (i) 97% of the amount determined by adding to the aggregate
principal amount of the Series B
Bonds any aggregate original issue
premium and subtracting from that
amount
any
aggregate
original
issue discount and any premium or
other costs of any Credit Support
Instrument purchased from the proceeds of the Series B Bonds, plus
(ii) any accrued interest on the
Series B Bonds from their date to
the date of their delivery to the
Original Purchasers.
“Series B Trust Indenture” means
the Trust Indenture between the
Port Authority and the Trustee providing for the issuance of the Series
B Bonds.
“Trustee” means The Bank of New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
Section 2. Determinations by Council.
This Council finds and determines as follows:
(a)
Public Purpose.
The acquisition of real property to be used for
public streets in the Flats East Community Plan area serves a proper
public municipal purpose.
(b) Cooperative Agreement. It is
necessary, proper and in the best
interest of the City to authorize the
Series B Cooperative Agreement to
provide for, among other things, (i)
the issuance of the Series B Bonds
by the Port Authority to pay costs
of the Series B Project, (ii) the provision of semi-annual or annual
Appropriation Payments to pay debt
service on the Series B Bonds, (iii)
disbursement of the proceeds of the
Series B Bonds for the acquisition of
the Property and (iv) the terms and
conditions of the purchase and
acquisition of the Property.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Series B
Bonds and the signing and delivery
of the Series B Cooperative Agreement
in
connection
with
such
issuance for the purpose provided in
this Ordinance serves a proper, public, municipal purpose.
Section 3. Determination of Bond
Terms; Application of Proceeds.
(a)
Principal Components and
Term.
Upon the determination of
the Director of Finance, which may
be based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that it is to the
financial advantage of the City and
in the City’s best interests, the
Director of Finance is authorized to
cooperate with the Port Authority to
negotiate and provide for the terms
of the Series B Bonds and the Appropriation Payments, which Appropriation Payments shall be equal to the
debt service on the Series B Bonds.
The principal amount of the Series
B Bonds and the corresponding principal component of Appropriation
Payments shall be equal to the principal amount specified in a certificate providing for the final terms of

The City Record
the Series B Bonds and signed by
the Director of Finance (the “Final
Terms Certificate”), which shall not
exceed $11,000,000, and shall be used
(i) to pay the costs of the Series B
Project, which include the acquisition of the Property, (ii) to pay
costs of any Credit Support Instruments, and (iii) to pay costs of issuing the Series B Bonds. The Series
B Bonds shall mature on the dates
beginning no later than December 1,
2010 and no earlier than December
1, 2008 and ending no less than 20
years and no more than 27 years
thereafter and shall mature in annual or semi-annual installments in the
principal amounts (either by principal maturity date or mandatory
redemption date) such that the total
principal and interest payments due
on the Series B Bonds in any fiscal
year (a) in which principal is
payable and there are two semiannual interest payments (if principal is payable annually) or (b) in
which there are two semi-annual
principal and interest payments (if
principal is payable semi-annually),
in either case is not more than three
times the amount of those payments
in any other fiscal year, all as to be
set forth in the Final Terms Certificate and the Bond Purchase
Agreement, and to be consistent
with this Ordinance, the Series B
Cooperative
Agreement
and
the
Series B Trust Indenture.
(b) Interest. The Series B Bonds
shall be issued as obligations bearing interest at a fixed rate or rates
not to exceed 7.0% with respect to
any maturity, based on the determination of the Director of Finance as
to the financial advantage to, and
best interests of, the City, as specified in the Final Terms Certificate.
(c)
Credit Support Instruments.
The Director of Finance is authorized to approve one or more Credit
Support Instruments, if the Director
of Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that the Credit Support Instruments will result in a savings in the
cost of the financing to the City,
which determination shall be specified in the Bond Purchase Agreement. The costs of such Credit Support Instruments shall be paid from
proceeds of the Series B Bonds or
from other money lawfully available
and appropriated or to be appropriated for that purpose, as determined
by the Director of Finance.
(d)
Appropriation Payments.
The Appropriation Payments to be
payable under and in accordance
with the Cooperative Agreement
during any fiscal year shall be an
amount sufficient to cover the
semi-annual or annual amount of
principal of, and interest on, the
Series B Bonds that are due and
payable during that fiscal year,
and such Appropriation Payments
shall be specified in an exhibit to
the Series B Cooperative Agreement; provided, however, that the
City’s payment of Appropriation
Payments is subject to appropriation as provided in the Series B
Cooperative Agreement and nothing in the Series B Cooperative
Agreement, the Series B Bonds or
the Series B Trust Indenture con-

1483

107
stitutes or shall constitute a pledge
by the City, or an obligation of the
City, of any taxes or other moneys
to the payments due thereunder.
(e)
Optional Redemption.
The
Series B Bonds may be subject to
optional redemption by the Port
Authority, solely at the direction of
the Director of Finance upon her
determination that it is to the financial advantage of the City and in
the City’s best interests.
(f) Primary Offering Disclosure.
If, in the judgment of the Director
of Finance after consultation with
the Port Authority and the Original
Purchasers, a disclosure document is
appropriate relating to the initial
offering of the Series B Bonds, the
Director of Finance, on behalf of the
City and in that officer’s official
capacity, is authorized to (i) cooperate with the Port Authority and
the Original Purchasers in the
preparation of, and the making of
modifications,
completions
or
changes of or supplements to, such
a disclosure document, (ii) determine, and certify or otherwise represent when the disclosure document is to be deemed final or is
final, (iii) authorize the use and distribution of that disclosure document and any supplements thereto
in connection with the initial offering of the Series B Bonds, and (iv)
sign certificates, statements or other
documents in connection with the
finality, accuracy and completeness
of that disclosure document.
(g)
Continuing Disclosure.
If
and to the extent required by Rule
15c2-12 (the “Rule”) promulgated by
the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in connection with
the sale of the Series B Bonds, the
Director of Finance shall enter into
a continuing disclosure agreement
on behalf of the City, approved as
to form and correctness by the
Director of Law, among the City, the
Port Authority and the Trustee,
with terms not inconsistent with
this Ordinance and as may be
approved by the Director of Finance
signing that agreement on behalf of
the City, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by that signing.
In each such continuing disclosure
agreement, the City shall agree to
provide, or cause to be provided, to
each nationally recognized municipal securities information repository
designated by the SEC from time to
time in accordance with that Rule,
and to any state information depository, the annual financial information and operating data and notices
of specified events required by that
Rule, as more particularly described
in the continuing disclosure agreement. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver each
continuing
disclosure
agreement
and any related agreements, certificates and other instruments, and to
deliver such information, as may be
necessary or appropriate to comply
with the requirements of the Rule.
The City understands and agrees
that those commitments are intended to be for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Series
B Bonds, including holders of bookentry interests in those Series B
Bonds.

108
(h) Application for Ratings. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance, the filing of applications
for one or more ratings on the Series
B Bonds by one or more nationallyrecognized rating agencies is necessary or desirable for marketing purposes, the Director of Finance is
authorized to cooperate with the
Port Authority to provide information as may be required in support
of applications for that purpose. The
cost of obtaining each such rating,
except to the extent paid by the
Original Purchasers in accordance
with the Bond Purchase Agreement,
shall be paid from the proceeds of
the Series B Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money made available by the Port
Authority.
(i) Application of Proceeds. The
proceeds from the sale of the Series
B Bonds shall be deposited and
applied as provided in the Series B
Cooperative
Agreement
and
the
Series B Trust Indenture and for the
purposes stated in this Ordinance.
Section 4.
Sale of the Series B
Bonds; Bond Purchase Agreement.
The Director of Finance shall sign
and deliver the Final Terms Certificate referred to herein and a Bond
Purchase Agreement for Series B
Bonds on a date she deems appropriate setting forth the conditions for
delivery of the Series B Bonds that
are consistent with this Ordinance,
the Series B Cooperative Agreement
and the Series B Trust Indenture that
are determined by the Director of
Finance, which may be based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, to be customary for bonds that
are subject to appropriation issued by
governmental
entities,
including,
without limitation, representations as
to the accuracy and completeness of
information contained in the disclosure document described in Section 3
of this Ordinance. The Bond Purchase
Agreement shall provide for the sale
of the Series B Bonds to the Original
Purchasers selected by the Port
Authority and approved by the Director of Finance and identified in the
Bond Purchase Agreement, based on
an evaluation of the qualifications of
firms that have proposed to underwrite the Series B Bonds.
In addition to the terms required
to be set forth in the Bond Purchase
Agreement in Section 3 hereof, the
Bond Purchase Agreement shall set
forth the following, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, consistent with this ordinance:
(a) the Purchase Price for the
Series B Bonds;
(b) whether any Series B Bonds
are to be subject to optional redemption prior to maturity, and, if
so, the earliest optional redemption
date for those Series B Bonds subject to prior redemption, which shall
be not later than ten years from the
first interest payment date of the
applicable series, and the applicable
redemption price, which shall be not
greater than 102% of the principal
amount redeemed;
(c) the title and series designation for the Series B Bonds;
(d) whether any Series B Bonds
are to be secured by or payable from
a Credit Support Instrument.

The City Record
It is determined that the terms of
the Series B Bonds and the corresponding terms of Appropriation
Payments as so determined within
the limitations set forth in this Ordinance and as so specified and set
forth in the Bond Purchase Agreement will be in the best interest of
the City and consistent with all
legal requirements.
Section 5. Authorization of Series
B Cooperative Agreement; Additional Documents.
In connection with
the issuance of the Series B Bonds,
the Director of Economic Development and the Director of Finance
are authorized, in the name and on
behalf of the City, and on a date
those officers deem appropriate to
sign and deliver the Series B Cooperative Agreement, approved as to
form and correctness by the Director of Law, in the form in File
No. 1023-08-A, together with such
changes that are not adverse to the
City as may be approved by the officers signing the same on behalf of
the City. The determination by those
officers that the Series B Cooperative Agreement is not adverse to the
City shall be conclusively evidenced
by the signing and delivery of that
Series B Cooperative Agreement by
those officers.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Clerk, the Director of
Law and other City officials are
authorized to sign and deliver and
accept delivery of such instruments,
certificates and documents as are
necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance, the Series B Cooperative Agreement and the Bond Purchase Agreement.
The Mayor, the Director of Economic Development, the Director of
Finance, the Director of Law and
other City officials, as appropriate,
are authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the
City and cooperate with the Port
Authority to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for
the delivery of the Series B Bonds
to the Original Purchasers and to
take all actions necessary to effect
due
signing,
authentication
and
delivery of the Series B Bonds under
the terms of this Ordinance, the
Series B Cooperative Agreement and
the Bond Purchase Agreement. The
Clerk of Council or other appropriate official of the City shall furnish
the Original Purchasers a true transcript of proceedings certified by
the Clerk or other official, of all proceedings had with reference to the
authorization of the Series B Cooperative Agreement and the payment
of debt service on the Series B
Bonds.
Section 6. Authorization. Notwithstanding and as an exception to the
provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to purchase the Property generally described in the Series B
Cooperative Agreement in the above
mentioned file, and as further described in a legal description to be
approved by the Director of Public
Services at the time the Property is
conveyed.

1484

July 9, 2008
Section 7.
Fair Market Value.
The consideration to be paid for the
Property shall not exceed fair market value as described in the Series
B Cooperative Agreement.
Section 8.
Completion Guaranty.
This Council hereby approves the
acceptance of a Completion Guaranty from the Developer. The Director
of Finance is authorized to sign a
Completion Guaranty on behalf of
the City in form and substance
approved by the Director of Law as
being consistent with the objectives
and requirements of this Ordinance,
all of which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the signing of the
Completion Guaranty.
Section 9.
Tax Covenants.
The
Director of Finance, as the fiscal
officer is, alone or in conjunction
with any other officer or employee
of the City, authorized (a) to cooperate with the Original Purchasers
and the Trustee by making, on
behalf of the City, such covenants
and representations in the Cooperative Agreement as are appropriate
and necessary so that (a) the Series
B Bonds will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds
or hedge bonds under Sections 141,
148 or 149 of the Code or (ii) be
treated other than as obligations to
which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, and (b) the interest on the
Series B Bonds will not be treated
as an item of tax preference under
Section 57 of the Code. The City
hereby covenants it will take or
cause to be taken such actions that
may be required of it for the interest on the Series B Bonds to be and
remain excluded from gross income
for federal income tax purposes and
that it will not take or authorize to
be taken any actions that would
adversely affect that exclusion.
Section 10.
Financial Advisor.
The Director of Finance may obtain
the services of one or more Financial Advisors, from time to time, to
assist the Director of Finance in
making any of the determinations
required by this Ordinance to be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The Director of Finance
may rely on the written advice of
any Financial Advisor so retained.
Any Financial Advisor or consultant
employed under the authority of this
Ordinance shall be disinterested in
the transaction and be independent
of the underwriters or counterparties and any other party interested
in the transaction.
Section 11.
Interpretation.
Any
provisions of the Codified Ordinances of the City which are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance shall not apply to the
Series B Bonds or matters authorized herein. Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any
manner as would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with
respect to any outstanding bonds,
certificates of indebtedness, other
obligations,
indentures,
or
other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City.
Section 12. Validity. It is found
and determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that all applicable provisions of the City’s Charter

July 9, 2008
and the rules of this Council have
been fully complied with and this
Ordinance was passed in conformity
therewith.
Section 13.
Severability.
Each
section of this Ordinance and each
subdivision or paragraph of any section is hereby declared to be independent, and the finding or holding
of any section or any subdivision or
paragraph of any section to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed
or held to affect the validity of any
other section, subdivision or paragraph of this Ordinance.
Section 14. Compliance with Open
Meeting Law.
It is hereby found
and determined that all formal
actions of this Council concerning
and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken in an open
meeting of this Council, and that all
deliberations of this Council and of
any of its committees that resulted
in those formal actions were in
meetings open to the public, in compliance with all applicable legal
requirements.
Section 15.
Sunset of Authorization. The authority granted by this
Ordinance shall expire one year from
the effective date of this Ordinance.
If a preliminary disclosure document
with respect to the issuance of the
Series B Bonds is distributed under
the authority of this Ordinance at any
time within the one-year period following its effective date, then the
authority granted by this Ordinance
shall not expire as to the Series B
Bonds. The Director of Finance shall
notify the Chairman of the Finance
Committee and the Clerk of this Council of the initiation of the issuance of
the Series B Bonds pursuant to the
authority of this Ordinance.
Section 16. Emergency. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all the members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its adoption and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 1024-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make
a finding that the proposed new
community district to be governed
by The Flats East New Community
Development Authority will be conducive to the public health, safety,
convenience, and welfare, and is
intended to result in the development of a new community; to declare The Flats East New Community Development Authority to be
organized and a body politic and
corporate; to designate the name of
the new community authority; to
define the boundary of the new community
district;
to
provide
the
method of selecting the board of
trustees of the new community
authority; to appoint the three members of the board of trustees to be

The City Record
appointed by the City as citizen
members and the one member of the
board of trustees to be appointed by
the City as the representative of
local government; to fix the surety
for the trustees’ bonds; and to declare an emergency.
Whereas, pursuant to Chapter 349
of the Ohio Revised Code, a petition
(the “Petition”) for the establishment of The Flats East New Community Development Authority to
govern The Flats East New Community Development District (the
“District”) was submitted to the
Cleveland City Council on or about
May 2, 2008; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 650-08 enacted by the Cleveland
City Council on May 5, 2008, the
Cleveland City Council authorized
the execution of the petition by the
City of Cleveland and directed the
same to be filed in the office of the
Clerk
of
the
Cuyahoga
County
Board of Commissioners; and
Whereas, the Petition was filed in
the office of the clerk of the Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners on May 6, 2008, as required by
Chapter 349 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, the “organizational board
of commissioners,” as that term is
defined in Section 349.01(F) of the
Ohio Revised Code, for the proposed
Flats East New Community Development Authority is comprised solely of the Cleveland City Council; and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
enacted Ordinance No. 769-08 on May
12, 2008, which ordinance determined
that the Petition complies with the
requirements of Chapter 349.03(A)
of the Ohio Revised Code and fixed
the time and place for a hearing on
the establishment of the Flats East
New Community Development Authority; and
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
349.03(A) of the Ohio Revised Code,
the Cleveland City Council, as the
organizational board of commissioners, held a public hearing on the
Petition on June 9, 2008 after public
notice was duly published in accordance with Section 349.03 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, an emergency exists in
that the formation of The Flats East
New Community Development Authority must occur immediately in order
to comply with the conditions set
forth in Chapter 349 of the Ohio
Revised Code and to facilitate the
development of that portion of the
City comprising the District, said
immediate action being in the interest of the City in order to preserve,
enhance and protect public health,
peace, property and safety; now
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That City Council finds
and determines that the District will
be conducive to the public health,
safety, convenience and welfare,
and is intended to result in the
development of a new community as
defined in Section 349.01(A) of the
Ohio Revised Code.
Section 2. That the Petition is
hereby accepted and shall be recorded, along with this ordinance, in the
journal of the Cleveland City Coun-

1485

109
cil, as the organizational board of
commissioners, and in the journal of
the Board of County Commissioners
of Cuyahoga County, pursuant to
Section
349.03(A)
of
the
Ohio
Revised Code.
Section 3. That The Flats East
New Community Development Authority is hereby organized as a body
politic and corporate.
Section 4. That the corporate name
of The Flats East New Community
Development Authority shall be “The
Flats East New Community Development Authority”.
Section 5. That The Flats East
New Community Development District shall be defined to have the
boundary set forth in the Petition.
Section 6. That the Board of
Trustees of The Flats East New
Community Development Authority
shall be composed of seven members
selected as provided in the Petition.
Section 7. That the City appoints
the following four members to serve
on the Board of Trustees of The
Flats East New Community Development Authority, each in the position and for the term indicated
beside such member’s respective
name:
Nate Coffman
Citizen Member — 2 year term
Deb Janik
Citizen Member — 1 year term
Vickie Eaton Johnson
Citizen Member — 1 year term
Tracey Nichols
Local Government Representative
2 year term
Section 8. That Flats East Development LLC and FED/Main Street
LLC (the “Developers”) shall appoint the remaining three members
to serve on the Board of Trustees of
The Flats East New Community
Development Authority as representatives of the Developers, and shall
designate one of those members to
serve an initial two year term.
Those appointments and designations shall be in writing filed with
the City Clerk and Director of Law
within ten days after the passage of
this Ordinance.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 349.04 of the Ohio Revised
Code, there shall be posted for each
member of the Board of Trustees
of The Flats East New Community
Development Authority a bond in
the amount of $10,000 for the faithful performance of his or her
duties. The bond shall be with a
company
authorized
to
conduct
business within the State of Ohio
as a surety and shall be deposited
with and preserved by the City
Clerk.
Section 10. That the Director of
Economic Development and other
appropriate officers of the City are
hereby authorized and directed to
take
such
actions,
make
such
arrangements and enter into agreements that are consistent with the
purpose of this Ordinance and necessary and proper for the establishment, operation and future growth

110
of The Flats East New Community
Development Authority, including
executing any supplements to the
Declaration of Covenants, Restrictions and Agreements for The Flats
East New Community Development
Authority necessary to add property
to the territory covered by that Declaration.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 1025-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Zone, Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 655-06,
passed April 24, 2006, relating to
authorizing the City to pay a portion of the costs of various utility
and
infrastructure
improvements
within the Flats East Bank Community Plan Area.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 655-06, passed April 24,
2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That, provided the City
enters into a Development Agreement with the Port Authority and
Flats East Development LLC, this
Council authorizes the contribution
by the City of labor, materials or
funds for the utility and infrastructure improvements described
in Section 1 above and in any
amendments to the Development
Agreement
in
the
estimated
amounts of $740,000 from the Division of Water (Fund No. 52 SF 001),
$5,500,000 from the Division of
Cleveland Public Power (Fund Nos.
58 SF 001 and 58 SF 230), and
$1,000,000 from the Department of
Public Service (Fund Nos. 20 SF
363, 20 SF 372, 20 SF 379, 20 SF
393, and 20 SF 505), Request No.
146268.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 655-06, passed April
24, 2006, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1026-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady, Pierce Scott and Sweeney
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to acquire certain
parcels of land located on the East
Bank of the Flats for future redevelopment of the Flats, for the
Department of Community Development; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
convey a portion of the properties to
the Flats East Development LLC
and the State of Ohio, which is not
needed for public use.
Whereas, the Director of Public
Service has requested the purchase
of properties from the County of
Cuyahoga located on the East Bank
of the Flats which are needed for
the future redevelopment of the
Flats; and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Service has requested the sale of a
portion of the properties, which are
not needed for public use, to the
Flats East Development LLC (the
“Redeveloper”) for the public purpose of future redevelopment of the
Flats; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
acquire title to the following described properties for future redevelopment of the Flats:
0.0963 ACRE (4,197 SQUARE FEET)
PARCEL “A”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 194 and
195, and also being further bounded
and described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the centerline intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and Old River Road, 66
feet wide, of which said monument
bears North 71° 42' 36" West, 262.84
feet from a 5/8 inch iron pin monument found at an angle point in the
centerline of aforementioned Old
River Road; thence South 71° 42' 36"
East along the center line of Old
River Road, a distance of 99.66 feet
to a point therein; thence South 18°
17' 24" West, a distance of 33.00 feet
to a point on the southerly line of
said Old River Road, the northeasterly corner of land now or formerly owned by Flats East Development, LLC, Permanent Parcel
Number 101-13-036, as recorded by
AFN
200804290435
of
Cuyahoga
County Deed Records, and the northwesterly corner of land now or formerly owned by the Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners,
Permanent Parcel Number 101-13028; thence South 30°29’l8” West
along the easterly line of said Flats
East Development, LLC, and along
the westerly line of said Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners, a
distance of 33.79 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”
said point also being the TRUE

1486

July 9, 2008
POINT Of BEGINNING for the area
of land hereinafter described, thence
clockwise along the following four
courses and distances;
1. Thence South 59° 25' 57" East,
a distance of 104.04 feet to a mag
nail to be set on the westerly line
of land now or formerly owned
by Telecom Acquisition Corp. I,
Inc., Permanent Parcel Number
101-13-027,
as recorded by AFN
200509301253 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records, and the easterly line
of aforementioned Cuyahoga County
Board of Commissioners;
2. Thence South 27° 59' 34" West
along the westerly line of said Telecom Acquisition Corp. I, Inc. and the
easterly line of said Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners, a
distance of 40.04 feet to a mag nail
to be set;
3. Thence North 59° 25' 57" West,
a distance of 105.79 feet to a 5/8
inch iron pin to be set with cap,
“GPD”; on the aforementioned easterly line of said Flats East Development, ftC, and said westerly line
of Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners;
4. Thence North 30° 29' 18" East
along said easterly and westerly
lines, a distance of 40.00 feet to the
True point of Beginning, and containing 0.0963 acre (4,197 Square
Feet) of land, more or less, and subject to all easements, restrictions,
and covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovier, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD 83
2,184 SQUARE FOOT (0.0501 ACRE)
PARCEL “B”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Number 194, and
also being further bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the center
line intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and Old River Road, 66
feet wide, of which said monument
bears South 55° 38' 38" West, 404.06
feet from a one inch iron pin monument found at the center line intersection
of
aforementioned
Main
Avenue and the traveled roadway of
West 10th Street; thence North 55°
38' 38" East along the center line of
said Main Avenue, a distance of
286.00 feet to a point therein; thence
South 34° 21' 22" East, a distance of
20.00 feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin to
be set with cap, “GPD” on the
southerly line of said Main Avenue,
and the northerly line of land now
or formerly owned by the Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners,
Permanent Parcel Number 101-13-029;
said point also being the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING for the area
of land hereinafter described, thence
clockwise along the following four
courses and distances:
1. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East
along the southerly line of said
Main Avenue, and along the norther-

July 9, 2008
ly line of said Cuyahoga County
Board of Commissioners, a distance
of 34.92 feet to a Mag Nail to be set
therein;
2. Thence South 47° 31' 43" East,
a distance of 60.27 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”,
at an angle point;
3. Thence South 42° 28' 17" West,
a distance of 34.00 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”,
at an angle point;
4. Thence North 47° 31' 43" West,
a distance of 68.23 feet to the True
Point of Beginning, and containing
0.0501 acre (2,184 Square Feet) of
land, more or less, and subject to
all
easements,
restrictions,
and
covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD83
0.2238 ACRE (9,747 SQUARE FEET)
PARCEL “C”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 194 and
195, and also being further bounded
and described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the centerline intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and Old River Road, 66
feet wide, of which said monument
bears South 55° 38' 38" West, 404.06
feet from a one inch iron pin monument found at the centerline intersection
of
aforementioned
Main
Avenue, and traveled roadway of
West 10th Street; thence North 55°
38' 38" East along the center line of
said Main Avenue, a distance of
286.00 feet to a point therein; thence
South 34° 21' 22" East, a distance of
20.00 feet to a 5/8 inch iron pin to
be set with cap, “GPD” on the
southerly line of said Main Avenue,
and the northerly line of land now
or formerly owned by the Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners,
Permanent Parcel Number 101-13-029;
said point also being the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING for the area
of land hereinafter described, thence
clockwise along the following ten
courses and distances:
1. Thence South 47° 31' 43" East,
a distance of 41.08 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”,
at an angle point;
2. Thence South 55° 38' 38" West,
a distance of 145.18 feet to a 5/8
inch iron pin to be set with cap,
“GPD” at a point of curve;
3. Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right and having a
radius of 73.50 feet, a central angle
of 25° 36' 06", a tangent of 16.70
feet, a chord of 32.57 feet which
bears South 11° 24' 52" West, a distance of 32.84 feet to a drill hole to
be set;
4. Thence South 56° 40' 27" East,
a distance of 68.01 feet to a drill
hole to be set on the northerly line
of Old River Road, 66 feet wide;
5. Thence North 71° 42' 36" West
along said northerly line of Old

The City Record
River Road, a distance of 94.41 feet
to a drill hole found at the southeasterly corner of land now or formerly owned by Flats East Development,
LLC,
Permanent
Parcel
Number 101-13-033, as recorded by
AFN
200804290435
of
Cuyahoga
County Deed Records;
6. Thence along the easterly line
of said Flats East Development,
LLC, and along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right and having a
radius of 1050.00 feet, a central
angle of 02° 47' 27", a tangent of
25.58 feet, a chord of 51.14 feet
which bears North 32° 28' 03" East,
a distance of 51.14 feet to a drill
hole found, and the northeasterly
corner thereof;
7. Thence South 58° 27' 12" West
along the northerly line of said
Flats East Development, LLC, a distance of 56.27 feet to a drill hole
found at a point of curvature;
8. Thence continuing along said
northerly line of said Flats East
Development, LLC, and along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the left
and having a radius of 4.00 feet, a
central angle of 130° 09' 44", a tangent of 8.61 feet, a chord of 7.26 feet
which bears South 06° 37' 41" East,
a distance of 9.09 feet to a drill hole
found on the northerly line of aforementioned Old River Road, 66 feet
wide, and the southwesterly corner
thereof;
9. Thence North 71° 42' 36" West
along said northerly line of said Old
River Road, a distance of 42.92 feet
to a mag nail to be set at its intersection with the southerly line of
Main Avenue, 40 feet wide;
10. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East
along the southerly line of said
Main Avenue, a distance of 229.22
feet to the True Point of Beginning,
and containing 0.2238 acre (9,747
Square Feet) of land, more or less,
and subject to all easements, restrictions, and covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD83
0.0251 ACRE (1,094 SQUARE FEET)
PARCEL “D”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Number 194, and
also being further bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the center
line intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and traveled roadway of
West 10th
Street, of which said
monument bears North 55° 38' 38"
East, 404.06 feet from a one inch
iron pin monument found at the center line intersection of aforementioned Main Avenue, and Old River
Road, 66 feet wide; thence South 55°
38' 38" West along the center line
of Main Avenue, a distance of 51.13
feet to a point therein; thence South
34° 21' 22" East, a distance of 20.00
feet to a drill hole to be set on the
southerly line of said Main Avenue,

1487

111
the northeasterly corner of land now
or formerly owned by the Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners,
Permanent Parcel Number 101-13-029,
and the northwesterly corner of land
now or formerly owned by the City
of
Cleveland,
Permanent
Parcel
Number 101-13-006, Parcel B, said
point also being the TRUE POINT
OF BEGINNING for the land hereinafter described, thence clockwise
along the following four courses
and distances:
1. Thence South 34° 25' 09" East
along the easterly line of said Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, and the westerly line of said
City of Cleveland, a distance of 40.00
feet to a drill hole to be set at an
angle point;
2. Thence South 55° 38' 38" West,
a distance of 22.69 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”
at an angle point;
3. Thence North 47° 31' 43" West,
a distance of 41.08 feet to a mag nail
to be set on the southerly line of
aforementioned Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and the northerly line of
said Cuyahoga County Board of
Commissioners;
4. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East
along said northerly line of Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, and said southerly line of Main
Avenue, a distance of 32.00 feet to
the True Point of Beginning, and
containing 0.0251 acre (1,094 Square
Feet) of land, more or less, and subject to all easements, restrictions,
and covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, Professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD83
0.3684 ACRE (16,046 SQUARE FEET)
PARCEL “E”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Number 194, and
also being further bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument at the center line
intersection of Main Avenue, 40 feet
wide, and traveled roadway of West
10th Street, of which said monument
bears North 55° 38' 38" East, 404.06
feet from a one inch iron pin monument at the center line intersection
of aforementioned Main Avenue, and
Old River Road, 66 feet wide; thence
North 55° 38' 38" East along the
center line of said Main Avenue, a
distance of 80.49 feet to a point
therein; thence South 34° 21' 22"
East, a distance of 20.00 feet to a
drill hole to be set at the intersection of the southerly line of said
Main Avenue and the easterly line
of West 10th Street, and the northwesterly corner of land now or formerly owned by the Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, Permanent Parcel Number 101-13-031, said
point also being the TRUE POINT
OF BEGINNING for the land hereinafter described, thence clockwise
along the following four courses
and distances:

112
1. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East
along the southerly line of Main
Avenue, 40 feet wide, and the
northerly line of the Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners, a
calculated distance of 434.25 feet to
a drill hole to be set at its intersection with the westerly line of
West 9th Street, 99 feet wide;
2. Thence South 34° 24' 38" East
along the westerly line of said West
9th Street, 99 feet wide, a distance
of 36.72 feet to a drill hole to be set
therein;
3. Thence South 55° 35' 04" West,
a calculated distance of 434.40 feet
to a point in the easterly line of
aforementioned West 1 0th Street,
and the westerly line of aforementioned Cuyahoga County Board of
Commissioners, which is referenced
by a drill hole on line, 0.80 feet
southwesterly;
4. Thence North 34° 10' l5" West
along said easterly line of West 10th
Street, and along said westerly line
of Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, a calculated distance of
37.17 feet (37.15 feet deed) to the
True Point of Beginning, and containing 0.3684 acre (16,046 Square
Feet) of land, more or less, and subject to all easements, restrictions,
and covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, Professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD83
0.0776 ACRE (3,380 SQUARE FEET)
PARCEL “F”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 194 and
195, and also being further bounded
and described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the centerline intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and Old River Road, 66
feet wide, of which said monument
bears North 71° 42' 36" West, 22.84
feet from a 5/8 inch iron pin monument found at an angle point in the
centerline of aforementioned Old
River Road; thence South 71° 42' 36"
East along the center line of Old
River Road, a distance of 99.66 feet
to a point therein; thence South 18°
17' 24" West, a distance of 33.00 feet
to a point on the southerly line of
said Old River Road, the northeasterly corner of land now or formerly
owned by Flats East Development,
LLC, Permanent Parcel Number 10113-036,
as
recorded
by
AFN
200804290435 of Cuyahoga County
Deed Records, and the northwesterly corner of land now or formerly
owned by the Cuyahoga County
Board of Commissioners, Permanent
Parcel Number 101-13-028; thence
South 30° 29' 18" West along the
easterly line of said Flats East
Development, LLC, and along the
westerly line of said Cuyahoga
County Board of Commissioners, a
distance of 73.79 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”
said point also being the TRUE
POINT OF BEGINNING for the area

The City Record
of land hereinafter described, thence
clockwise along the following six
courses and distances;
1. Thence South 59° 25' 57" East,
a distance of 105.79 feet to a point
on the easterly line of aforementioned Cuyahoga County Board of
Commissioners, and the westerly
line of land now or formerly owned
by Telecom Acquisition Corp. I, Inc.,
Permanent Parcel Number 101-13-027,
as recorded by AFN 200509301253 of
Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
2. Thence South 27° 59' 34" West
along said easterly line of Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners, and along said westerly line of
Telecom Acquisition Corp. I, Inc., a
distance of 26.76 feet to the northeasterly dock line of the Cuyahoga
River, as established by Ordinance
31,283, passed March 04, 1901;
3. Thence North 63° 15' 56" West
along said northeasterly dock line
of the Cuyahoga River, a calculated
distance of 54.32 feet (54.34 feet
deed) to an angle point;
4. Thence North 69° 26' 45" West
continuing along said northeasterly
dock line of the Cuyahoga River, a
calculated distance of 47.02 feet
(47.04 feet deed) to an angle point;
5. Thence North 71° 49' 29" West
continuing along said northeasterly
dock line of the Cuyahoga River, a
calculated distance of 6.59 feet to
the southeasterly corner of aforementioned Flats East Development,
LLC, Permanent Parcel Number 10113-036;
6. Thence North 30° 29' 18" East
along said easterly line of Flats
East Development, LLC, a distance
of 39.96 feet to the True Point of
Beginning, and containing 0.0776
acre (3,380 Square Feet) of land,
more or less, and subject to all easements, restrictions, and covenants of
record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD 83
0.1062 ACRE (4,624 SQUARE FEET)
RESIDUAL PARCEL “G”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 194 and
195, and also being further bounded
and described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the centerline intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and Old River Road, 66
feet wide, of which said monument
bears North 71° 42' 36" West, 262.54
feet from a 5/8 inch iron pin monument found at an angle point in the
centerline of aforementioned Old
River Road; thence South 71° 42' 36"
East along the center line of Old
River Road, a distance of 99.66 feet
to a point therein; thence South 18°
17' 24" West, a distance of 33.00 feet
to a point on the southerly line of
said Old River Road, and the northeasterly corner of land now or formerly owned by Flats East Development,
LLC,
Permanent
Parcel
Number 101-13-036, as recorded by

1488

July 9, 2008
AFN
200804290435
of
Cuyahoga
County Deed Records, said point
also being the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING for the area of land
hereinafter described, thence clockwise along the following four courses and distances:
1. Thence South 71° 42' 36" East
along the southerly line of said Old
River Road, a distance of 103.96 feet
to the northwesterly corner of land
now or formerly owned by Telecom
Acquisition Corp. I, Inc., Permanent
Parcel Number 101-13-027, as recorded by AFN 200509301253 of Cuyahoga County Deed Records;
2. Thence South 27° 59' 34" West
along said westerly line of Telecom
Acquisition Corp. I, Inc., a distance
of 55.95 feet to a mag nail to be set;
3. Thence North 59° 25' 57" West,
a distance of 104.04 feet to a 5/8
inch iron pin to be set with cap,
“GPD” on the easterly line of aforementioned Flats East Development,
LLC;
4. Thence North 30° 29' 18" East
along said easterly line of Flats East
Development, LLC, a distance of 33.79
feet to the True Point of Beginning,
and containing 0.1062 acre (4,624
square Feet) of land, more or less,
and subject to all legal easements,
restrictions, and covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD 83
0.2800 ACRE (12,198 SQUARE FEET)
RESIDUAL PARCEL “H”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 194 and
195, and also being further bounded
and described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument found at the center
line intersection of Main Avenue, 40
feet wide, and traveled roadway of
West 10th
Street, of which said
monument bears North 55° 38' 38"
East, 404.06 feet from a one inch
iron pin monument found at the center line intersection of aforementioned Main Avenue, and Old River
Road, 66 feet wide; thence South 55°
38' 38" West along the center line
of Main Avenue, a distance of 51.13
feet to a point therein; thence South
34° 21' 22" East, a distance of 20.00
feet to a drill hole to be set on the
southerly line of said Main Avenue,
and the northwesterly corner of land
now or formerly owned by the City
of
Cleveland,
Permanent
Parcel
Number 101-13-036, Parcel B; thence
South 34° 25' 09" East along said
westerly line of the City of Cleveland, a distance of 40.00 feet to a
drill hole to be set, said point also
being the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING
for
the
land
hereinafter
described, thence clockwise along
the following ten courses and distances:
1. Thence continuing South 34°
25' 09" East along said westerly
line of the City of Cleveland, a distance of 32.51 feet to a point on a
curve, and the northeasterly corner

July 9, 2008
of land now or formerly owned by
G.C.R.T.A., Permanent Parcel Number 101-13-041;
2. Thence along the northerly line
of said G.C.R.T.A. and its southwesterly extension, and along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the left
and having a radius of 950.00 feet,
a central angle of 12° 20' 18", a tangent of 102.69 feet, a chord of 204.19
feet which bears South 38° 36' 49"
West, a distance of 204.58 feet to a
drill hole found on the northerly line
of aforementioned Old River Road,
66 feet wide;
3. Thence North 71° 42' 36" West
along the northerly line of said Old
River Road, a distance of 8.41 feet
to a drill hole to be set therein;
4. Thence North 56° 40' 27" West,
a distance of 68.01 feet to a drill
hole to be set at a point of curve;
5. Thence along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left and having a
radius of 73.50 feet, a central angle
of 25° 36' 06", a tangent of 16.70
feet, a chord of 32.57 feet which
bears North 11° 24' 52" East, a distance of 32.84 feet to a 5/8 inch iron
pin to be set with cap, “GPD”;
6. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East,
a distance of 145.18 feet to a 5/8
inch iron pin to be set with cap, a
“GPD” at an angle point;
7. Thence South 47° 31' 43" East,
a distance of 27.15 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”,
at an angle point;
8. Thence North 42° 28' 17" East,
a distance of 34.00 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”
at an angle point;
9. Thence North 47° 31' 43" West,
a distance of 19.19 feet to a 5/8 inch
iron pin to be set with cap, “GPD”,
at an angle point;
10. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East,
a distance of 22.69 feet to the True
Point of Beginning, and containing
0.2800 acre (12,198 Square Feet) of
land, more or less, and subject to all
easements,
restrictions,
and
covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
Noah
Zone, NAD83
0.3324 ACRE (14,482 SQUARE FEET)
RESI DUAL PARCEL “I”
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and known as being a part of Original Two Acre Lot Number 194, and
also being further bounded and
described as follows:
Commencing at a one inch iron
pin monument at the center line
intersection of West 9th Street, 99
feet wide, and Lakeside Avenue, of
which said monument bears South
34° 24' 38" East, 572.97 feet from a
3/4 inch iron pin monument found
at the center line intersection of
aforementioned West 9th Street
and Front Avenue, 80 feet wide;
thence North 34° 24' 38" West
along the center line of said West
9th Street, 99 feet wide, a distance
of 76.53 feet to a point therein;
thence South 55° 34' 19" West, a
distance of 49.50 feet to a point on
the westerly line of said West 9th

The City Record
Street, and a northeasterly corner
of land now or formerly owned by
Sabeta Realty Company, Permanent
Parcel Number 101-13-001; said point
also being the TRUE POINT OF
BEGINNING for the land hereinafter described, thence clockwise
along the following four courses
and distances:
1. Thence continuing South 55° 34'
l9" West along the northerly line of
said Sabeta Realty Company, a calculated
distance
of
169.73
feet
(170.00 feet deed) to an angle point;
2. Thence North 34° 27' 56" West
continuing along said northerly line
of Sabeta Realty Company, a calculated distance of 85.32 feet (85.45
feet deed) to an angle point;
3. Thence North 55° 35' 04" East,
a calculated distance of 169.82 feet
to a drill hole to be set on the westerly line of aforementioned West 9th
Street, 99 feet wide;
4. Thence South 34° 24' 38" East
along the westerly line of said West
9th Street, a distance of 85.28 feet to
the True Point of Beginning, and
containing 0.3324 acre (14,482 Square
Feet) of land, more or less, and subject to all easements, restrictions,
and covenants of record.
This legal description was prepared by GPD Associates, under the
supervision of Joseph R. Ciuni, professional Surveyor No. 7394 in June
of 2008 using information shown on
the boundary and location surveys
prepared for the Wolstein Group, by
URS,
Engineers
and
Surveyors
under the supervision of Norman
Hoovler, professional Surveyor No.
8259 in 2005 and 2006.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD83
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to execute on behalf of the City of Cleveland all necessary documents to
acquire and to convey the properties
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers, environmental audits, and
all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the properties.
Section 3. That at the direction of
the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to convey Parcels A and
B described in Section 1, to the State
of Ohio for $1.00, and other valuable
consideration, which is determined
to be fair market value by the
Board
of
Control,
taking
into
account all restrictions, reversionary
interests and similar encumbrances
placed by the City of Cleveland in
the deeds of conveyance.
Section 4. That at the direction of
the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to convey Parcels C and
E described in Section 1, to the
Redeveloper for $1.00, and other
valuable consideration, which is
determined to be fair market value
by the Board of Control, taking into
account all restrictions, reversionary
interests and similar encumbrances
placed by the City of Cleveland in
the deeds of conveyance.
Section 5. That this Council finds
that the conveyances to the State of
Ohio and the Redeveloper of properties described in Sections 3 and 4
above, constitute a public use of the
properties for the purposes of redeveloping the Flats:
Section 6. That the conveyances
shall be made by official deeds prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of

1489

113
the City of Cleveland. The deeds
shall contain necessary provisions,
including restrictive reversionary
interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control or Director of
Law, which shall protect the parties as their respective interests
require and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any advertising signs or
billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 1027-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Saint Martin De Porres High School Work
Study Program to participate as a
sponsor of students for work/study
positions with Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Saint Martin de Porres High School Work Study Program in order to participate as a
sponsor of students for work/study
positions with Cleveland City Council. This agreement shall be entered
into as of August 1, 2008 and shall
terminate July 31, 2009. Cleveland
City Council shall provide sponsorship for up to four students at a
time during the term. The agreement shall be certified for $28,500.00
and shall be certified from fund
numbers 632000-01-010100.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 1066-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance amending
the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 894-08 passed June 2, 2008 as it
pertains to the “Downtown Digs,” A
Guide to Living Downtown Cleveland
Project through the use of Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

114
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 894-08 passed
June 2, 2008 are hereby amended to
read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Community
Development to enter into an agreement
with
Downtown
Cleveland
Alliance for the “Downtown Digs,” A
Guide to Living Downtown Cleveland
Project through the use of Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of Community Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with the
Downtown Cleveland Alliance for the
“Downtown Digs,” A Guide to Living
Downtown Cleveland Project for the
public purpose of increasing residential growth opportunities for City residents
in
downtown
Cleveland
through the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 894-08 passed
June 2, 2008 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 1067-08.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning
Commission
to
enter
into
agreement with the Shaker Square
Area Development Corporation for
the Larchmere Blvd. Master Plan
Update Project through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
City Planning Commission to enter
into agreement with the Shaker
Square Area Development Corporation for the Larchmere Blvd. Master
Plan Update Project for the public
purpose of promoting the development of the Larchmere Blvd Business District to encourage economic
revitalization through the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $30,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1068-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
agreement with the Breakers of
Rocky River for a recreational softball baseball program for young
women through the use of Ward 20
Neighborhood Recreation Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
enters into an agreement with the
Breakers of Rocky River for a recreational softball baseball team for
young women for the public purpose
of providing organized team sports
activities for young women residing
in the city of Cleveland through the
use of Ward 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $1,036 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 1069-08.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into an agreement with the
Cleveland State University Foundation for the Cleveland Police Review
Board Project through the use of
Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety enters into an agreement with the Cleveland State University Foundation for the Cleveland Police Review Board Project
for the public purpose of performing
a quantitative and qualitative report
analyzing
the
activities
of
the
Cleveland
Police
Review
Board
through the use of Ward 2 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.

1490

July 9, 2008
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 1070-08.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Buckeye Area Development Corporation on behalf of the East 122nd
Street Club to stretch banners on
East 122nd Street between Buckeye
and Williams for the period from
July 7, 2008 to August 6, 2008, inclusive, promoting street pride.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue
a permit to the Buckeye Area Development Corporation on behalf of the
East 122nd Street Club to install,
maintain and remove banners on
East 122nd Street between Buckeye
and Williams for the period from
July 7, 2008 to August 6, 2008, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved
by the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 1071-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Mega Church to stretch banners at
the intersections of Scranton Road
and Behrer & Scranton Road and
Althen, for the period from July 21,
2008 to August 18, 2008 inclusive,
publicizing the Mega FUN Day.

July 9, 2008
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to install,
maintain and remove banners at the
intersections of Scranton Road and
Behrer & Scranton Road and Althen,
from July 21, 2008 to August 18,
2008, inclusive. Said banners shall
be approved by the Director of Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as to not
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Ord. No. 1072-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Council President to
enter into contract with Cobalt
Group, Inc. for professional services to assist City Council leadership and staff in planning, implementing and sustaining operational
improvements to support efficient
systems/processes and delivery of
quality services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council President is hereby authorized to enter
into a contract with Cobalt Group,
Inc. for professional services to assist City Council leadership and
staff in planning, implementing and
sustaining operational improvements
to support efficient systems/processes and delivery of quality services,
for a period beginning in July 2008
and concluding in November 2008.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $25,000 and
shall be payable from Fund Numbers 632000-01-010100.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

The City Record

115

COUNCIL COMMITTEE

Authorized Absence: Westbrook, Vice
Chair; Lewis. Protempore: Johnson.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair;
Cimperman,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Conwell,
Turner,
Pierce
Scott,
Brancatelli,
Zone,
Coats,
White. Authorized Absence: Westbrook. Protempore: Kelley, Cleveland, Keane, Johnson.

MEETINGS

10:00 a.m.

shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed July 2, 2008.
Effective July 7, 2008.

Wednesday, July 2, 2008
JOINT COMMITTEES
10:00 a.m.
City Planning (Zoning) Committee: Present: Cimperman, Chair; Conwell, Keane, Zone, Reed. Authorized
Absence: Westbrook, Vice Chair;
Lewis.
10:00 a.m.
City
Planning
Committee
and
Finance Committee: Present in Planning: Cimperman, Chair; Conwell,
Authorized
Keane,
Zone,
Reed.
Absence: Westbrook, Vice Chair;
Lewis. Protempore: Johnson.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair;
Cimperman,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Conwell,
Turner,
Pierce
Scott,
Brancatelli,
Zone,
Coats,
White. Authorized Absence: Westbrook. Protempore: Kelley, Cleveland, Keane, Johnson.
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee, Legislation Committee and Finance Committee: Present in Safety: Conwell,
Chair; Brady, Vice Chair; Mitchell,
Polensek, Coats, Kelley, Cummins,
Protempore:
Turner,
Santiago.
White.
Present in Legislation: Cleveland,
Chair; Keane, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Reed, White, Pierce Scott.
Authorized Absence: Lewis. Protempore: Kelley, Johnson.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair;
Cimperman,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Conwell,
Turner,
Pierce
Scott,
Brancatelli,
Zone,
Coats,
White. Authorized Absence: Westbrook. Protempore: Kelley, Cleveland, Keane, Johnson.
10:00 a.m.
Legislation Committee and Finance
Committee: Present in Legislation:
Cleveland, Chair; Keane, Vice Chair;
Cimperman, Reed, White, Pierce
Scott. Authorized Absence: Lewis.
Protempore: Kelley, Johnson.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair;
Cimperman,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Conwell,
Turner,
Pierce
Scott,
Brancatelli,
Zone,
Coats,
White. Authorized Absence: Westbrook. Protempore: Kelley, Cleveland, Keane, Johnson.
10:00 a.m.
Public Service Committee, City
Planning Committee and Finance
Committee:
Present
in
Service:
Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Polensek, Cummins, White,
Johnson, Santiago, Reed. Protempore: Brancatelli.
Present in Planning: Cimperman,
Chair; Conwell, Keane, Zone, Reed.

1491

Public Parks, Property and Recreation
Committee,
City
Planning
Committee and Finance Committee:
Present in Parks: Johnson, Chair;
White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Turner, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek. Protempore: Brady, Cleveland, Coats.
Present in Planning: Cimperman,
Chair; Conwell, Keane, Zone, Reed.
Authorized Absence: Westbrook, Vice
Chair; Lewis. Protempore: Johnson.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair;
Cimperman,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Conwell,
Turner,
Pierce
Scott,
Brancatelli,
Zone,
Coats,
White. Authorized Absence: Westbrook. Protempore: Kelley, Cleveland, Keane, Johnson.
10:00 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee, Public Parks,
Property and Recreation Committee,
City
Planning
Committee
and
Finance
Committee:
Present
in
CDED: Pierce Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair; Cimperman, Cummins, Coats, Brady, Zone. Authorized Absence: Lewis, Westbrook.
Protempore: Johnson.
Present in Parks: Johnson, Chair;
White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Turner, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek. Protempore: Brady, Cleveland, Coats.
Present in Planning: Cimperman,
Chair; Conwell, Keane, Zone, Reed.
Authorized
Absence:
Westbrook,
Protempore:
Vice
Chair;
Lewis.
Johnson.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair;
Cimperman,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Conwell,
Turner,
Pierce
Scott,
Brancatelli,
Zone,
Coats,
White. Authorized Absence: Westbrook. Protempore: Kelley, Cleveland, Keane, Johnson.
10:00 a.m.
Aviation and Transportation Committee and Finance Committee:
Present in Aviation: Kelley, Chair;
Keane,
Vice
Chair;
Brancatelli,
Mitchell, Turner, Cleveland. Authorized Absence: Westbrook.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair;
Cimperman,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Conwell,
Turner,
Pierce
Scott,
Brancatelli,
Zone,
Coats,
White. Authorized Absence: Westbrook. Protempore: Kelley, Cleveland, Keane, Johnson.
10:00 a.m.
Health and Human Services Committee and
Finance
Committee:
Present
in
Health:
Brancatelli,
Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair; Kelley,
Santiago, Conwell, Mitchell, Reed.
Present
in
Finance:
Sweeney,
Chair;
Cimperman,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Conwell,
Turner,
Pierce
Scott,
Brancatelli,
Zone,
Coats,
White. Authorized Absence: Westbrook. Protempore: Kelley, Cleveland, Keane, Johnson.

The City Record

116

July 9, 2008

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
A Guide to Living Downtown Cleveland Project — Downtown Digs — economic development —
(Ward 13 NEF) — amend Sect. 1 Ord. 894-08 (O 1066-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411-1489
Clerk of Council — Saint Martin De Porres High School (Work Study Program)
(O 1027-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411-1489
Clerk of Council — Visual Evidence /E-Discovery LLC — indexing of data recovered
(O 1010-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403-1481
Community Development — FBE Inc. — Morgana East Project (O 871-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1471
Cooperative Agreement relating to the Series A Bonds — Flats District (O 1022-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403-1481
Cooperative Agreement relating to the Series B Bonds — Flats District (O 1023-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404-1482
Economic Development — amend development agreement — Flats East Development LLC
(O 775-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1467
Gateway’s acquisition and re-conveyance — Ownership, Financing, Construction and
Operation of a Sports Facility and Related Economic and Redevelopment Projects
(O 1015-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Master Plan Update Project — (Ward 06 NEF) — Shaker Square Area Development Corp.
(O 1067-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411-1490
Organization of Flat East New Community Development Authority — Flat District
(O 1024-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407-1485
Parks, Recreation and Properties — Breakers of Rocky River — recreational softball
baseball program (Ward 20 NEF) (O 1068-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490
Public Safety — CSU Foundation — Cleveland Police Review Board Project —
(Ward 2 NEF) (O 1069-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490

Appreciation
Gibbons, Reverend Debbie (R 1136-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Jurcsisn, John A. (R 1135-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Banners
Cudell Improvement Inc., — W.98th St.(14 banners attached CPP utility poles) —
Service Dept. (O 934-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1473
Mega FUN Day — intersections of Scranton Rd. & Buhrer Ave. — July 21, 2008 to
August 18, 2008 — Mega Church — Service Dept. — (Ward 14) (O 1071-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490
Promoting street pride — E. 122nd St. (Buckeye and Williams) — July 7, 2008 to
August 6, 2008, — Buckeye Area Development Corp. — Service Dept. (Ward 06)
(O 1070-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490

Blight
Intention to appropriate property at 11850 Lorain Ave. — blighted premises (Ward 19)
(R 1003-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399

Board of Control — Baldwin Water Works Plant
Fairmount Pump Station Rehabilitation Project — contract per Ord. 1871-07 to The
Grear Lakes Construction Co. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 312-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule — rates, rules and regulations —
enact per Ord. 65-08 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 309-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1432
Energy Adjustment Charge — rates, rules and regulations — amend BOC Res. 669-05 —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 308-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1432
Street lighting services — rates, rules and regulations — establish per Ord. 682-08 —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 310-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435

1492

July 9, 2008

The City Record

117

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Bellaire Road (Ward 19) — PPN 019-15-029/030 — Quan AM Temple of Vietnamese B per Ord.
819-08 (BOC Res. 329-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
Cedar Avenue (Ward 5) — PPN 118-27-022 — Dionne Thomas Carmichael per Ord. 890-08
(BOC Res. 323-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
Central Avenue (Ward 5) — PPN 118-24-015 — Good Hope Baptist Church per Ord. 887-08
(BOC Res. 322-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority (CMHA) — various parcels on scattered sites
(Ward 5) per Ord. 772-08 (BOC Res. 320-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Ella Avenue (Ward 2) — PPN 134-15-042/043/044/057 — Martin E. Liptak per Ord.
1614-07 (BOC Res. 324-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
Pierpont Avenue (Ward 8) — PPN 109-04-051 — Kimberly Y. Dowdell per Ord. 773-08
(BOC Res. 328-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
Scoville Avenue (Ward 5) — PPN 124-03-013 — Shiloh Baptist Church per Ord. 888-08
(BOC Res. 326-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
Storer Avenue (Ward 17) — PPN 016-02-039 — F.S. Metals, Inc. per Ord. 603-08
(BOC Res. 325-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
Wade Avenue (Ward 14) — PPN 007-19-059 — Charles E. Mangus and
Truly H. Mangus (BOC Res. 330-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
West 81st Street, 2095 (Ward 17) — PPN 006-02-130 — Greater Cleveland Habitat for
Humanity per Ord. 557-08 (BOC Res. 327-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
West 97th Street (Ward 18) — PPN 017-24-052 — Adrian Halcomb per Ord. 706-08
(BOC Res. 321-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437

Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Printer/scanning system, large format — per Ord. 901-07 — all bids rejected —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 317-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436

Board of Control — Finance Department
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in June 2008 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 305-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431
Steel plates, miscellaneous sizes — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Stark Metals Sales,
Inc. (BOC Res. 306-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431
Window washing services — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Cardinal Window
Cleaning Co., Inc. (BOC Res. 307-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Bellaire Road (Ward 19) — PPN 019-15-029/030 — Quan AM Temple of Vietnamese B per Ord.
819-08 (BOC Res. 329-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
Cedar Avenue (Ward 5) — PPN 118-27-022 — Dionne Thomas Carmichael per Ord. 890-08
(BOC Res. 323-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
Central Avenue (Ward 5) — PPN 118-24-015 — Good Hope Baptist Church per Ord. 887-08
(BOC Res. 322-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority (CMHA) — various parcels on scattered sites
(Ward 5) per Ord. 772-08 (BOC Res. 320-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Ella Avenue (Ward 2) — PPN 134-15-042/043/044/057 — Martin E. Liptak per Ord.
1614-07 (BOC Res. 324-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
Pierpont Avenue (Ward 8) — PPN 109-04-051 — Kimberly Y. Dowdell per Ord. 773-08
(BOC Res. 328-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
Scoville Avenue (Ward 5) — PPN 124-03-013 — Shiloh Baptist Church per Ord. 888-08
(BOC Res. 326-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
Storer Avenue (Ward 17) — PPN 016-02-039 — F.S. Metals, Inc. per Ord. 603-08
(BOC Res. 325-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437
Wade Avenue (Ward 14) — PPN 007-19-059 — Charles E. Mangus and
Truly H. Mangus (BOC Res. 330-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
West 81st Street, 2095 (Ward 17) — PPN 006-02-130 — Greater Cleveland Habitat for
Humanity per Ord. 557-08 (BOC Res. 327-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1438
West 97th Street (Ward 18) — PPN 017-24-052 — Adrian Halcomb per Ord. 706-08
(BOC Res. 321-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1437

Board of Control — Police Division
Elevator, service and maintenance — per Ord. 1033-07 — all bids rejected —
Dept. of Public Safety (BOC Res. 319-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436

1493

The City Record

118

July 9, 2008

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Baldwin Water Works-Fairmount Pump Station Rehabilitation Project —
contract per Ord. 1871-07 to The Great Lakes Construction Co. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 312-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435

Board of Control — Public Safety Department
Elevator, service and maintenance — per Ord. 1033-07 — all bids rejected —
Division of Police (BOC Res. 319-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Printer/scanning system, large format — per Ord. 901-07 — all bids rejected —
Division of Engineering and Construction (BOC Res. 317-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Vinyl sheeting for traffic signs — contract per Ord. 639-07 to Avery
Dennison Corporation — Division of Traffic Engineering
(BOC Res. 318-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Baldwin Water Works-Fairmount Pump Station Rehabilitation Project —
contract per Ord. 1871-07 to The Great Lakes Construction Co. —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 312-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule — rates, rules and
regulations of Division of Cleveland Public Power — enact per
Ord. 65-08 (BOC Res. 309-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1432
Energy Adjustment Charge — rates, rules and regulations of Division of
Cleveland Public Power — amend BOC Res. 669-05 (BOC Res. 308-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1432
Quicklime — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Huron Lime, Inc. — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 311-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Street lighting services — rates, rules and regulations of Division of Cleveland Public
Power — establish per Ord. 682-08 (BOC Res. 310-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Valves and fittings, service — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Cambridge Brass —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 313-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Valves and fittings, service — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Ferguson
Enterprises, Inc., d.b.a., Ferguson Waterworks — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 315-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Valves and fittings, service — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply
Waterworks, Ltd. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 316-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Valves and fittings, service — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Utility Service & Supply,
Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 314-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap, personal property, and by-products in June 2008 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 305-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Quicklime — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Huron Lime, Inc. — Division of Water, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 311-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Steel plates, miscellaneous sizes — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Stark Metals Sales,
Inc. — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 306-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431
Valves and fittings, service — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Cambridge Brass —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 313-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Valves and fittings, service — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Ferguson
Enterprises, Inc., d.b.a., Ferguson Waterworks — Division of Water, Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 315-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Valves and fittings, service — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply
Waterworks, Ltd. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 316-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Valves and fittings, service — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Utility Service & Supply,
Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 314-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Vinyl sheeting for traffic signs — contract per Ord. 639-07 to Avery Dennison Corporation —
Division of Traffic Engineering, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 318-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Window washing services — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to Cardinal Window Cleaning Co.,
Inc. — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 307-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431

1494

July 9, 2008

The City Record

119

Board of Control — Traffic Engineering Division
Vinyl sheeting for traffic signs — contract per Ord. 639-07 to
Avery Dennison Corporation — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 318-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436

Board of Control — Water Division
Baldwin Water Works-Fairmount Pump Station Rehabilitation Project —
contract per Ord. 1871-07 to The Great Lakes Construction Co. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 312-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Quicklime — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.24 to Huron Lime, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 311-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Valves and fittings, service — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Cambridge Brass —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 313-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435
Valves and fittings, service — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to Ferguson
Enterprises, Inc., d.b.a., Ferguson Waterworks — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 315-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Valves and fittings, service — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply
Waterworks, Ltd. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 316-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1436
Valves and fittings, service — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to
Utility Service & Supply, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 314-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1435

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Clark Avenue, 2704, (Ward 14) — Gerald Zahler, owner, and Crucita Santini Ortiz,
on behalf of La Copa Sports Bar, tenant — appeal to be heard on 7/21/2008
(Cal. 08-105) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1439
Detroit Avenue, 5823, (Ward 17) — Cheryl Lessin and Mack Bailey, owners — appeal to be
heard on 7/21/2008 (Cal. 08-127) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1439
East 152nd Street, 684, (Ward 10) — Brett Greer, owner — appeal to be heard on 7/21/2008
(Cal. 08-129) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1439
Horn, James — appeal to be heard on 7/21/2008 (Cal. 08-126) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1439
State Road, 4305, (Ward 15) — Brett Greer, owner — appeal to be heard on 7/21/2008
(Cal. 08-130) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1439
Superior Avenue, 11010-22, (Ward 9) — Maher Suleiman, owners — appeal to be heard
on 7/21/2008 (Cal. 08-128) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1439

Bonds
Cooperative Agreement relating to the Series A Bonds — Flats District
(O 1022-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403-1481
Cooperative Agreement relating to the Series B Bonds — Flats District
(O 1023-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404-1482
Final Judgements and Settlement Bonds 2008 — $10,400,000 — issuance and
sale of bonds — Finance Dept. — Law Dept. (O 984-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Buckeye Area Development Corporation
Promoting street pride — banners — E. 122nd St. (Buckeye and Williams) — July 7, 2008 to
August 6, 2008, — Service Dept. (Ward 06) (O 1070-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490

Burke Lakefront Airport
Ring Communications standalone crash phone system — contracts — Port Control Dept.
(O 814-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1467

City Council
Clerk of Council — agreement — Saint Martin De Porres High School
(Work Study Program) (O 1027-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411-1489
Council President — contract with Cobalt Group, Inc. — professional services
for implementing and sustaining operational improvements
(O 1072-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1491

1495

The City Record

120

July 9, 2008

City of Cleveland Bids
Ash borer tree planting — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Park Maintenance and Properties — per Ord. 497-08 —
bid due July 24, 2008 (advertised 7/9/2008 and 7/16/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1441
Detroit Avenue streetscape project (West 73rd St. to West 58th St.) —
Department of Public Service — Division of Engineering and Construction —
per Ord. 1530-02. 990-03, 701-05 — bid due August 1, 2008
(advertised 7/9/2008 and 7/16/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1441
Ductile iron pipe and fittings — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water —
per C.O. Sec. 129.25 — bid due July 25, 2008 (advertised 7/2/2008 and 7/9/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1440
Gunning Park site improvements — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Research, Planning and Development — per Ord. 1940-07, 451-08 — bid due
July 23, 2008 (advertised 7/9/2008 and 7/16/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1441
Hydrofluosilic acid — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per C.O. Sec.
129.24 — bid due August 6, 2008 (advertised 7/2/2008 and 7/9/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1440
Recreation equipment and maintenance agreements — Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties — Division of Recreation — per Ord. 294-08 — bid due July 23, 2008
(advertised 7/2/2008 and 7/9/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1440
Recreation equipment and maintenance for John F. Kennedy Recreation Center —
Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties — Division of Recreation —
per Ord. 895-08 — bid due July 23, 2008 (advertised 7/9/2008 and 7/16/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1441
Safety equipment for OSHA/PERPP compliance — Department of Public Utilities —
per Ord. 346-08 — bid due July 25, 2008 (advertised 7/2/2008 and 7/9/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1440
Snow and ice removal at health centers — Department of Public Health —
Division of Health — per Ord. 497-08 — bid due July 31, 2008
(advertised 7/2/2008 and 7/9/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1440
T.V. inspection trucks repair and maintenance — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 497-08 — bid due July 25, 2008
(advertised 7/2/2008 and 7/9/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1440
Tree planting initiative, citywide — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Park Maintenance and Properties — per Ord. 497-08 — bid due July 24,
2008 (advertised 7/9/2008 and 7/16/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1441
Tree removal — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties — Division of
Park Maintenance and Properties — per Ord. 497-08 — bid due July 24, 2008
(advertised 7/9/2008 and 7/16/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1441
Vehicle Fire Protection System kits — Department of Public Safety —
Division of Police — per Ord. 497-08 — bid due July 31, 2008
(advertised 7/9/2008 and 7/16/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1441

City of Cleveland Heights
Easement granting to Judson — on Chestnut Hills Dr. — Parks, Recreation and
Properties Department (O 405-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1456

City Planning Commission
Amending Flats East Bank Community Development Plan — Flat District
(O 648-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1461
Change the Use, Area and Height District — N. side of Denison Ave. —
Multi-Family Residential District (O 558-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431-1457
Cuyahoga County Board of County Commissioners — project agreement —
Towpath Trail Project (O 829-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1468
Denison Ave. (north and south side) — between W. 16th St. & W. 13th St. —
change the Use, Area and Height Districts — Local Retail Business, a ‘B’
Area District and a ‘2’ Height District (O 1069-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431-1454
Design and planning review fees — repeal Sect. 301.01 — amend Ord. No. 1382-91
(O 1016-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Expanding the Union Miles (Business Revitalization District) — Zoning
(O 1001-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Master Plan Update Project — (Ward 06 NEF) — agreement — Shaker Square Area
Development Corp. (O 1067-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411-1490
Valleyview Homes Hope VI Phase Two — subdivision plats — Service Department
(Ward 13) (F 1011-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
W. 85th St., (northeast corner) & Madison Ave., — changing Use, Area and Height Districts —
zoning — (Ward 17) (O 1002-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1398

1496

July 9, 2008

The City Record

121

Clerk of Council
Agreement — Saint Martin De Porres High School (Work Study Program)
(O 1027-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411-1489
Agreement — Visual Evidence /E-Discovery LLC — indexing of data recovered
(O 1010-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403-1481

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Solicit proposals for door-to-door shuttle services — contracts (O 991-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Solicit proposals for point-to-point shuttle services — contracts (O 992-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389

Cleveland Metropolitan School District
Jackson Administration — Cleveland Metropolitan School District CEO —
independent consultant — monitor community inclusion & workforce
participation (R 1073-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399

Cleveland Public Power
Contracts — tree trimming — Utilities Dept. (O 985-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Contract — labor & materials to paint poles and other street-side elements
(O 988-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Contracts — Clean & maintain insulators, bushings, and lightning arrestors
(O 990-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388
Contracts — Decorative post lights (including installation) (O 989-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388
Contracts — repair, replace, and maintain existing pipe-type cable —
Utilities Department (O 1004-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399-1478
Flats East Bank Community Plan Area — City’s payment — various utility
and infrastructure improvements — amend Sect. 2 Ord. No. 655-06
(O 1025-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407-1486
Utilities Department — labor & materials to repair and clean the decorative
and special lighting on City bridges (O 987-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387

Cleveland State University
Public Safety — agreement — CSU Foundation — Cleveland Police Review Board Project —
(Ward 2 NEF) (O 1069-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490

Codified Ordinances
Amend Sects. 573.02, 573.04, 573.05, 573.10 & 573.99 — bulkhead repair notice
(O 861-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1468
Design and planning review fees — repeal Sect. 301.01 — amend Ord. No. 1382-91
(O 1016-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Federal and state grants — applying and accepting — Department of Port Control —
Amend Sec 139.16 (O 1005-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400-1478
Outdoor sales by ticket brokers — enacting new Sects.698A.01 and 698A.99 —
amend Sec. 698.06 (O 961-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1476
Towing fees — amend Sec. 405.06 (O 1971-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1454

Collinwood Village Development Corporation
Purchase property on E. 157th St., E. 173rd St. & Clermont — Collinwood Nottingham
Villages Development Corp. (O 870-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1471

Community Development
Acquire properties from Cuyahoga County — transfer to Flats East Development LLC. —
State of Ohio (O 1026-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408-1486
Amending Flats East Bank Community Development Plan — Flat District
(O 648-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1461
Agreement with FBE Inc. — Morgana East Project (O 871-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1471

1497

The City Record

122

July 9, 2008

Community Development
E. 108th & E. 110th St. — PPN 135-09-003 & PPN 135-14-079 — Land Reutilization
Program — Union Miles Development Corp. (Ward 2) (O 1014-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
E. 12th & E.13th Sts., — development agreement — amendment to Contract No. 64748 —
Zaremba, Inc. (O 1000-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
E. 33rd St., — Land Reutilization Program — Shun Ting Mo & Catherine Yn Lau
(O 707-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1464
E. 33rd St., — Land Reutilization Program — Tam Ching Chuen (O 708-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1464
E. 67th St. to E. 69th St., — Land Reutilization Program — Street Holdings LLC
(O 652-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1462
E. 79th St., — PPN 119-26-065/ 066 / 067 — Land Reutilization Program — Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation (O 1012-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Hawthorne Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Petar Oroz (O 509-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1456
Intention to appropriate property at 11850 Lorain Ave. — blighted premises — (Ward 19)
(R 1003-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Platt Ave., — PPN 126-02-042 — Land Reutilization Program — Jacqueline L. Parker
(Ward 6) (O 1013-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Purchase property on E. 157th St., E. 173rd St. & Clermont — Collinwood Nottingham Villages
Development Corp. (O 870-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1471
Transfer control & possession of the property — Parks, Recreation and Properties Dept.
(O 765-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1466
Superior Ave., 1550 — transitional housing facility for men — amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No.
531-07 — purchase agreement — Lake Erie Motel, Inc. (O 869-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1471
Woodhill Rd. & Holton Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland RTA
(O 889-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1472

Condolences
Dunnigan, Otha Lee (R 1090-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Embrescia, Fred (R 1093-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Fisher, David (R 1095-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Hicks, Myrtle Hamm (R 1094-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Jones, Helen Kroeger (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Lawrence, Edward (R 1091-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Lewis, Daniel (R 1098-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russ, Carol L. (R 1092-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Talley, Alvin Phillip (R 1097-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Williams, Sandra Denise (R 1096-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Wood- Carr, Gladys (R 1089-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Congratulations
Apostolic Church of God in Christ (R 1124-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Brown, Gregory L. (R 1104-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Cutietta, Dr. Robert A. (R 1102-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
DeVaul, Randall E. (R 1132-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Dreyer, Allan B. (R 1119-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Froelich, Georgia A. (R 1105-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Gildenmeister, Richard (R 1116-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Grund, Graham (R 1117-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Hairston, Jr., John M. (R 1131-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Hakimzadeh, Dr. Roshanak (R 1103-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Harmon, James A. (R 1106-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Hawkins, Dr. Eddie L. (R 1128-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Johnson, Angela (R 1110-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Jonsson, Hildur Asgeirsdottir (R 1109-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Julka, Anand “ Bill “ (R 1099-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Kahan, Mitchell (R 1113-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Kilbane, Patrick & Ann (R 1129-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Lucas, Craig (R 1112-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Mangus, Mark Alan (R 1122-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Moravec, Dr. Christine S. (R 1101-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Ovark, Kenneth “ Kenny “ (R 1130-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Rose, Melvin (R 1111-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Ruhlman, Michael (R 1114-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Sparks-Davis, Nadine (R 1127-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Stewart, Reverend George O. (R 1123-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

1498

July 9, 2008

The City Record

123

Symon, Michael (R 1115-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Tucker, Dorothy (R 1121-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Vanderbrook, Don (R 1118-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Veres, Sister Marie , HM (R 1125-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Visconti, Dan (R 1108-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Western Reserve Fire Museum (R 1107-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
WIRE- NET (R 1120-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Yan, Ellis Z. (R 1100-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Zaremba, Rose (R 1126-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Contracts
Amend contract # 64848 — Intergraph Corp. — Fire/EMS CAD System to Version 8
(O 995-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
BEDO, LLC — residential rehabilitation — University Lofts project — 2010 Euclid Ave. &
2020 Euclid Ave. — amend Sects. 2 & 3 of Ord. No. 1817-07 (O 999-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399-1478
Cleveland Public Power — tree trimming — Utilities Dept. (O 985-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Coplogic, Inc. — Desk Officer Online Reporting System — Public Safety (O 940-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1476
Council President — Cobalt Group, Inc. — professional services for implementing and
sustaining operational improvements (O 1072-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1491
CPP — labor & materials to paint poles and other street-side elements (O 988-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
CPP — Clean & maintain insulators, bushings, and lightning arrestors (O 990-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388
CPP — Decorative post lights (including installation) (O 989-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388
CPP — repair, replace, and maintain existing pipe-type cable — Utilities Department
(O 1004-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399-1478
Critical Business Analysis, Inc. — Expedition software (O 588-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1459
Exercise option to renew contract no. 67144 — automatic doors — purchase parts to maintain
& repair — various divisions (O 698-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1464
Matthew Malec — professional ITservices — Safety Dept. (O 939-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1476
MCPc Inc. — provide network integration services — Public Safety Department (O 998-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Music Hall & Public Hall — public improvement (O 684-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1463
Paladin Protective Systems, Inc. — to maintain, repair & upgrade Utilities
Department security systems (O 986-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Requirement contracts — electronic parking meters — Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (O 817-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1467
Ring Communications standalone crash phone system — Port Control Dept. (O 814-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1467
Solicit proposals for door-to-door shuttle services — CHIA (O 991-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388
Solicit proposals for point-to-point shuttle services — CHIA (O 992-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
Subsidiary contract # 66031 for Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co. — relocation of underground
utility installments beneath Cargo Rd. (O 933-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1473
Subsidiary contract # 66813 with Kokosing Construction Co., Inc. — for the runway
uncoupling & extension project — Port Control Dept. (O 993-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
Utilities Department — labor & materials to repair and clean the decorative and special
lighting on City bridges (O 987-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387

Cudell Improvement
W.98th St.(14 banners attached CPP utility poles) — Service Dept. (O 934-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1473

Cuyahoga County
Acquire properties from Cuyahoga County — transfer to Flats East Development LLC., —
State of Ohio (O 1026-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408-1486

Cuyahoga County Board of Commissioners
Project agreement — Towpath Trail Project (O 829-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1468

Cuyahoga County Port Authority
Economic Development — amend development agreement — Flats East Development LLC
(O 775-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1467

Easements
Easement granting to Judson — on Chestnut Hills Dr. — Parks, Recreation and Properties
Department (O 405-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1456
St. Paul A.M.E. Church — granting easement — Emery Park (between Emery Ave. &
W. 130th St.) (O 757-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1465

1499

The City Record

124

July 9, 2008

Economic Development Department
A Guide to Living Downtown Cleveland Project — Downtown Digs — agreement
(Ward 13 NEF) — amend Sect. 1 Ord. 894-08 (O 1066-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411-1489
Acknowledge water service at 1121 E. 260th St., Euclid, Ohio — Ray Fogg Building Methods,
Inc. (R 1017-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1413-1442
Acknowledge water service at 23555 Euclid Avenue, Euclid, Ohio — HBP Euclid Corp.
(R 1018-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1413-1442
Acknowledge water service at 842 E. 79th St., Cleveland, Ohio — provides storm, sanitary
and industrial waste sewer service (R 1021-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1414-1443
Acknowledge water service at Cuyahoga Valley Industrial Center City Project — provides
storm, sanitary and industrial waste sewer service to Independence & Pershing Ave.
(R 1020-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1413-1442
Acknowledge water service at Strongsville Project (Strongsville, Ohio) (R 1019-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1413-1442
BEDO, LLC — contract — residential rehabilitation — University Lofts project —
2010 Euclid Ave. & 2020 Euclid Ave. — amend Sects. 2 & 3 of Ord. No. 1817-07
(O 999-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399-1478
Amend development agreement — Flats East Development LLC (O 775-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1467
Gateway’s acquisition and re-conveyance — agreement — Ownership, Financing, Construction
and Operation of a Sports Facility and Related Economic and Redevelopment Projects.
(O 1015-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Organization of Flat East New Community Development Authority — Flat District
(O 1024-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407-1485
Starkweather Ave., 761 — transfer to another taxing district application — liquor permits
(Ward 13) (F 1081-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379

Emergency Medical Service Division
Metropolitan Medical Response System, 2007 — Grants — Ohio Department of Public Safety
(O 996-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
Regional Medical Response System Program, 2008 — grant — Ohio Department of Health
(O 1007-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400-1479

Encroachments
Right-of-way — Flats East Development, L.L.C, for Main Ave. and Front Ave. —
installing, using, & maintaining tie backs for a soil retention system —
Service Dept. (O 863-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1470
Stonebridge Towers Ltd., public right-of-way — Detroit Ave., — Public Service Dept.
(O 994-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389

Fees
Design and planning review fees — repeal Sect. 301.01 — amend Ord. No. 1382-91
(O 1016-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Towing fees — amend Sec. 405.06 (O 1971-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1454

Finance Department
Final Judgements and Settlement Bonds 2008 — $10,400,000 — issuance and sale of bonds —
Law Dept. (O 984-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Flats District
Acquire properties from Cuyahoga County — transfer to Flats East Development LLC. —
State of Ohio (O 1026-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408-1486
Amending Flats East Bank Community Development Plan (O 648-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1461
Cooperative Agreement relating to the Series A Bonds (O 1022-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403-1481
Cooperative Agreement relating to the Series B Bonds (O 1023-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404-1482
Encroach into right-of-way — Flats East Development, L.L.C, for Main Ave. and Front Ave. —
installing, using, & maintaining tie backs for a soil retention system — Service
Dept. (O 863-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1470
Flats East Bank Community Plan Area — City’s payment — various utility and infrastructure
improvements — amend Sect. 2 Ord. No. 655-06 (O 1025-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407-1486
Organization of Flat East New Community Development Authority (O 1024-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407-1485
To apply & accept a grant from the State of Ohio — purchase property — Flats East Bank
Project (O 649-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1461

1500

July 9, 2008

The City Record

125

Grants
Buffer Zone Protection Program 2007 — Ohio Department of Public Safety
(O 997-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
Buffer Zone Protection Program, 2006 — Ohio Department of Public Safety
(O 1008-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-1479
Cities Readiness Initiative Program; — Public Health (O 935-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1474
Federal and state grants — applying and accepting — Department of Port Control —
Amend Sec 139.16 (O 1005-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400-1478
Integrated Health Initiative Program — Cleveland Foundation & Woodruff Foundation —
Public Health — amend Ord. No. 1052-07 (O 938-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1475
Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection Program, 2006 — Public Safety Department
(O 1006-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400-1478
Metropolitan Medical Response System, 2007 — Ohio Department of Public Safety
(O 996-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
Reach Program — Public Health (O 936-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1475
Regional Medical Response System Program, 2008 — Ohio Department of Health
(O 1007-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400-1479
State of Ohio — Loew Park (O 756-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1465
To apply & accept a grant from the State of Ohio — purchase property —
Flats East Bank Project (O 649-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1461

Health Centers
Salting & snowplowing parking lots, walkways, and sidewalks —
Public Health Administration Building (O 937-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1475

Health Department
Apply & accept a grant — Cities Readiness Initiative Program; Public Health
(O 935-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1474
Apply & accept a grant — Reach Program — Public Health (O 936-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1475
Integrated Health Initiative Program — grants — Cleveland Foundation &
Woodruff Foundation — Public Health — amend Ord. No. 1052-07
(O 938-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1475
Salting & snowplowing parking lots, walkways, and sidewalks — City health centers —
Public Health Administration Building (O 937-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1475

Homeless
Superior Ave., 1550 — transitional housing facility for men —
amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No. 531-07 — purchase agreement —
Lake Erie Motel, Inc. (O 869-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1471

Housing
BEDO, LLC — contract — residential rehabilitation — University Lofts project —
2010 Euclid Ave. & 2020 Euclid Ave. — amend Sects. 2 & 3 of Ord. No. 1817-07
(O 999-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399-1478
Superior Ave., 1550 — transitional housing facility for men — amend
Sect. 8 of Ord. No. 531-07 — purchase agreement — Lake Erie
Motel, Inc. (O 869-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1471

Land Reutilization Program
E. 108th & E. 110th St. — PPN 135-09-003 & PPN 135-14-079 — Union Miles Development Corp.
(Ward 2) (O 1014-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
E. 33rd St. — Shun Ting Mo & Catherine Yn Lau (O 707-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1464
E. 33rd St. — Tam Ching Chuen (O 708-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1464
E. 67th St. to E. 69th St., — Street Holdings LLC (O 652-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1462
E. 79th St. — PPN 119-26-065/ 066 / 067 — Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation
(O 1012-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Hawthorne Ave., — Petar Oroz (O 509-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1456
Platt Ave. — PPN 126-02-042 — Jacqueline L. Parker (Ward 6) (O 1013-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Woodhill Rd. & Holton Ave. — Cleveland RTA (O 889-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1472

1501

The City Record

126

July 9, 2008

Liquor Permits
Bolivar Rd., 727 (Patio) — objection to transfer of Liquor License (Ward 13)
(R 1032-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1415-1443
Bolivar Rd., 727 — transfer of location application (Ward 13 ) (F 1082-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Bridge Ave., 4020 — objection to renewal (Ward 13) (R 1053-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1421-1450
Broadway Ave., 4643 — objection to renewal (Ward 05) (R 1050-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420-1449
Buckeye Rd., 10008 — objection to renewal (Ward 04) (R 1060-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423-1452
Buckeye Rd., 11132 — objection to renewal (Ward 04) (R 1061-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423-1452
Carnegie Ave., 900 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership —
repeal Res. 879-08 (Ward 13) (R 1049-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420-1449
Center St., 1114 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 13) (F 1079-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
Clark Ave., 5110 — objection to renewal (Ward 14) (R 1043-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1418-1447
Dundee Dr., 453 — objection to renewal (Ward 09) (R 1042-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1418-1447
E. 116th St., 2871-75 — objection to renewal (Ward 04) (R 1062-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424-1452
E. 116th St., 3019 — objection to renewal (Ward 04) (R 1057-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1422-1451
E. 123rd St., 1163 — objection to renewal (Ward 09) (R 1041-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1417-1446
E. 185th St., 770 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 11) (F 1078-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
E. 200th St., 788 — objection to renewal (Ward 11) (R 1058-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1422-1451
E. 55th St., 2288 — objection to renewal (Ward 05) (R 1051-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420-1449
E. 93rd St., 3363 — objection to renewal (Ward 05) (R 1054-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1421-1450
E. 93rd St., 3661 — transfer of ownership and location application (Ward 02)
(F 1076-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
E.49th St., 1311 — objection to renewal (Ward 13) (R 1033-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1415-1444
E.65th St., 3071 — objection to renewal (Ward 12) (R 1030-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1414-1443
East 93rd St., 3230 — objection to renewal (Ward 04) (R 1056-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1422-1451
Elm St., 2325 — objection to renewal (Ward 13) (R 1034-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1415-1444
Fleet Ave., 6101 — objection to renewal (Ward 12) (R 1031-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1414-1443
Fulton Rd., 3463 — withdraw objection to transfer of Liquor License —
repeal Res. 966-08 (Ward 14) (R 1047-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1419-1448
Independence Rd., 3578 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 13) (F 1080-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
Kinsman Ave., 7535 — objection to renewal (Ward 05) (R 1055-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1422-1450
Lakeside Ave., 3232 — objection to renewal (Ward 13) (R 1035-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1416-1444
Lorain Ave., 12524 — objection to renewal (Ward 19) (R 1048-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420-1448
Payne Ave., 3009 — objection to transfer of Liquor License (Ward 13) (R 1036-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1416-1445
Payne Ave., 3009 — transfer of location application (Ward 13) (F 1083-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Saranac Rd., 15507 — objection to renewal (Ward 11) (R 1059-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423-1452
Scranton Rd., 3101 — objection to renewal (Ward 14) (R 1044-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1418-1447
Shaker Sq., 13101 — transfer of ownership and location application (Ward 04)
(F 1077-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
St. Clair Ave., 4059 — objection to renewal (Ward 13) (R 1037-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1416-1445
St. Clair Ave., 6702 — objection to renewal (Ward 13) (R 1038-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1417-1445
Starkweather Ave., 761 — Economic Development — transfer to another taxing district
application (Ward 13) (F 1081-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
Superior Ave., 2553 — objection to renewal (Ward 13) (R 1039-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1417-1446
W. 117th St., 3050 — liquor agency contract (Ward 19) (F 1085-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
W. 117th St., 3519 — new application (Ward 19) (F 1086-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
W. 14th St., 3146 — objection to renewal (Ward 13) (R 1040-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1417-1446
W. 25th St., 2132 — objection to renewal (Ward 14) (R 1046-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1419-1448
W. 44th St., 3238 — objection to renewal (Ward 14) (R 1045-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1419-1448
W. 44th St., 3353 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 14) (F 1084-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
W. 44th St., 3382 — objection to renewal (Ward 14) (R 1052-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1421-1449
Woodhill Rd., 2603 — objection to renewal (Ward 04) (R 1063-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424-1453
Woodhill Rd., 2623 — objection to renewal (Ward 04) (R 1064-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424-1453
Woodhill Rd., 2890 — objection to renewal (Ward 04) (R 1065-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424-1453

Mayor’s Office
Jackson Administration — Cleveland Metropolitan School District CEO —
independent consultant — monitor community inclusion & workforce
participation (R 1073-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399

Music Hall
Music Hall & Public Hall — public improvement — contracts (O 684-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1463

1502

July 9, 2008

The City Record

127

Neighborhood Equity Funds
A Guide to Living Downtown Cleveland Project — Downtown Digs — agreement —
economic development — (Ward 13 NEF) — amend Sect. 1 Ord. 894-08 (O 1066-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411-1489
Master Plan Update Project — (Ward 06 NEF) — agreement — Shaker Square Area Development
Corp. (O 1067-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411-1490
Parks, Recreation and Properties — agreement — Breakers of Rocky River —
recreational softball baseball program (Ward 20 NEF) (O 1068-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490
Public Safety — agreement — CSU Foundation — Cleveland Police Review Board Project —
(Ward 02 NEF) (O 1069-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490

Ohio Department of Public Health
Apply & accept a grant — Cities Readiness Initiative Program; — Public Health
(O 935-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1474
Regional Medical Response System Program, 2008 — grant (O 1007-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400-1479

Parking Facilities Division
Requirement contracts — electronic parking meters — Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (O 817-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1467

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Community Development — transfer control & possession of the property — (O 765-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1466
Easement granting to Judson — on Chestnut Hills Dr. (O 405-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1456
Music Hall & Public Hall — public improvement — contracts (O 684-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1463
Agreement — Breakers of Rocky River — recreational softball baseball program
(Ward 20 NEF) (O 1068-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490
Requirement contracts — electronic parking meters (O 817-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1467
St. Paul A.M.E. Church — granting easement — Emery Park (between Emery Ave., &
W. 130th St.) (O 757-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1465
State of Ohio — grant — Loew Park (O 756-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1465
To apply & accept a grant from the State of Ohio — purchase property — Flats East Bank
Project (O 649-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1461

Permits
Stonebridge Towers Ltd., encroachment — public right-of-way — Detroit Ave. —
Public Service Dept. (O 994-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389

Personnel Department
Compensation for various classifications — passed June 9, 2008 — amend Sects. 13 & 24 Ord.
No. 947-08 (O 1009-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402-1480

Plats
Valleyview Homes Hope VI Phase Two — subdivision plats — City Planning Commission —
Service Department (Ward 13) (F 1011-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Police Division
Coplogic, Inc. — contracts — Desk Officer Online Reporting System — Public Safety (O 940-08) . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1476

Port Control Department
Amend Sects. 573.02, 573.04, 573.05, 573.10 & 573.99 — bulkhead repair notice (O 861-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1468
Critical Business Analysis, Inc. — contracts — Expedition software (O 588-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1459
Exercise option to renew contract no. 67144 — automatic doors — purchase parts
to maintain & repair — various divisions (O 698-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1464
Federal and state grants — applying and accepting — Amend Sec 139.16 (O 1005-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400-1478
Ring Communications standalone crash phone system — contracts (O 814-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1467
Solicit proposals for door-to-door shuttle services — contracts — CHIA (O 991-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388
Solicit proposals for point-to-point shuttle services — contracts — CHIA (O 992-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
Subsidiary contract # 66031 for Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co. — relocation of
underground utility installments beneath Cargo Rd. (O 933-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1473
Subsidiary contract # 66813 with Kokosing Construction Co., Inc. — for the runway
uncoupling & extension project (O 993-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389

1503

The City Record

128

July 9, 2008

Professional Services
Clerk of Council — agreement — Visual Evidence /E-Discovery LLC — indexing of data
recovered (O 1010-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403-1481
Council President — contract with Cobalt Group, Inc. — professional services
for implementing and sustaining operational improvements (O 1072-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1491
Critical Business Analysis, Inc. — contracts — Expedition software (O 588-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1459
Jackson Administration — Cleveland Metropolitan School District CEO — independent
consultant — monitor community inclusion & workforce participation
(R 1073-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Matthew Malec — contract for professional ITservices — Safety Dept.
(O 939-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1476
MCPc Inc. — contract — provide network integration services — Public Safety Department
(O 998-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Paladin Protective Systems, Inc. — contracts — to maintain, repair & upgrade Utilities
Department security systems (O 986-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387

Project Agreements
Cuyahoga County Board of County Commissioners — Towpath Trail Project (O 829-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1468

Public Improvements
Cooperative Agreement relating to the Series A Bonds — Flats District (O 1022-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403-1481
Music Hall & Public Hall — contracts (O 684-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1463

Public Right-of-Way
Stonebridge Towers Ltd., encroachment permit — Detroit Ave. — Public Service Dept.
(O 994-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389

Purchases and Supplies Division
Acquire properties from Cuyahoga County — transfer to Flats East Development LLC. —
State of Ohio (O 1026-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408-1486
Gateway’s acquisition and re-conveyance — agreement — Ownership, Financing, Construction
and Operation of a Sports Facility and Related Economic and Redevelopment Projects.
(O 1015-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Marston Ave., (south side) — sell City-owned property — Union Miles Development Corporation
(O 755-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1465
Purchase property on E. 157th St., E. 173rd St. & Clermont — Collinwood Nottingham Villages
Development Corp. (O 870-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1471
Superior Ave., 1550 — transitional housing facility for men — amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No.
531-07 — purchase agreement — Lake Erie Motel, Inc. (O 869-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1471

Recognition
Lutheran Hospital Medical Offices (R 1133-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
McCartney, Mike (R 1134-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Regional Transit Authority
Woodhill Rd. & Holton Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland RTA
(O 889-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1472

Reports
Central Collection Agency — Report on Audits of Financial Statements of December 31, 2007
& 2006. (years ended) (F 1074-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
Public Utilities (WPC Division) — Audits of Financial Statements for the years ended
December 31, 2007 and 2006. (F 1075-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379

Right-of-Way
Encroachment — Flats East Development, L.L.C, for Main Ave. and Front Ave. —
installing, using, & maintaining tie backs for a soil retention system —
Service Dept. (O 863-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1470

1504

July 9, 2008

The City Record

129

Safety Department
Agreement — CSU Foundation — Cleveland Police Review Board Project (Ward 2 NEF)
(O 1069-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490
Amend contract # 64848 — Intergraph Corp. — Fire/EMS CAD System to Version 8
(O 995-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
Buffer Zone Protection Program 2007 — grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety
(O 997-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
Buffer Zone Protection Program, 2006 — grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety
(O 1008-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401-1479
Coplogic, Inc. — contracts — Desk Officer Online Reporting System (O 940-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1476
Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection Program, 2006 — grant (O 1006-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400-1478
Matthew Malec — contract for professional ITservices (O 939-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1476
MCPc Inc. — contract — provide network integration services (O 998-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Metropolitan Medical Response System, 2007 — Grants — Ohio Department of Public Safety
(O 996-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1390
Regional Medical Response System Program, 2008 — grant — Ohio Department of Health
(O 1007-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400-1479

Salaries
Compensation for various classifications — passed June 9, 2008 — amend Sects. 13 & 24 Ord.
No. 947-08 (O 1009-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402-1480

Service Department
Cudell Improvement Inc., — W.98th St.(14 banners attached CPP utility poles)
(O 934-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1473
Encroach into right-of-way — Flats East Development, L.L.C, for Main Ave. and Front Ave. —
installing, using, & maintaining tie backs for a soil retention system
(O 863-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1428-1470
Flats East Bank Community Plan Area — City’s payment — various utility and infrastructure
improvements — amend Sect. 2 Ord. No. 655-06 (O 1025-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407-1486
Front Ave., N.W., & Old River RD. — intent to vacate a portion (R 554-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431-1441
Mega FUN Day — banners — intersections of Scranton Rd. & Buhrer Ave. — July 21, 2008 to
August 18, 2008 — Mega Church (Ward 14) (O 1071-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490
On-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories — rehabilitation,
training, and inspections — various divisions (O 591-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1459
Promoting street pride — banners — E. 122nd St. (Buckeye and Williams) —
July 7, 2008 to August 6, 2008, — Buckeye Area Development Corp. (Ward 06)
(O 1070-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490
Stonebridge Towers Ltd., encroachment permit — public right-of-way — Detroit Ave.
(O 994-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
Valleyview Homes Hope VI Phase Two — subdivision plats — City Planning Commission
(Ward 13) (F 1011-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Shaker Square Development Corporation
Master Plan Update Project — (Ward 06 NEF) — agreement (O 1067-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411-1490

St. Paul AME Church
Granting easement — Emery Park (between Emery Ave., & W. 130th St.)
(O 757-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1465

State of Ohio
Acquire properties from Cuyahoga County — transfer to Flats East Development LLC.,
(O 1026-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408-1486
Grant — Loew Park (O 756-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1465
To apply & accept a grant from the State of Ohio — purchase property — Flats East Bank
Project (O 649-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1461

Taxation Division
Central Collection Agency — Report on Audits of Financial Statements of December 31, 2007
& 2006 (years ended) (F 1074-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379

1505

The City Record

130

July 9, 2008

Towing
Towing fees — amend Sec. 405.06 (O 1971-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1454

Tree Trimming
Cleveland Public Power — contracts — Utilities Dept. (O 985-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387

Union-Miles Development Corporation
E. 108th & E. 110th St. — PPN 135-09-003 & PPN 135-14-079 — Land Reutilization Program
(Ward 2) (O 1014-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Marston Ave., (south side) — sell City-owned property (O 755-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1465

Unions
Compensation for various classifications — passed June 9, 2008 — amend Sects. 13 & 24 Ord.
No. 947-08 (O 1009-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402-1480

Utilities Department
Cleveland Public Power — contracts — tree trimming (O 985-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
CPP — contract — labor & materials to paint poles and other street-side elements
(O 988-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
CPP — contracts — Clean & maintain insulators, bushings, and lightning arrestors
(O 990-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388
CPP — contracts — Decorative post lights (including installation) (O 989-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1388
CPP — contracts — repair, replace, and maintain existing pipe-type cable
(O 1004-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399-1478
Cudell Improvement Inc., — W.98th St.(14 banners attached CPP utility poles) —
Service Dept. (O 934-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1473
Flats East Bank Community Plan Area — City’s payment — various utility and
infrastructure improvements — amend Sect. 2 Ord. No. 655-06 (O 1025-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407-1486
Paladin Protective Systems, Inc. — contracts — to maintain, repair & upgrade Utilities
Department security systems (O 986-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
(WPC Division) — Audits of Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 2007
and 2006 (F 1075-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
Contracts — labor & materials to repair and clean the decorative and special lighting on
City bridges (O 987-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387

Vehicles
On-road vehicles and off-road equipment, cabs, bodies, and accessories — rehabilitation,
training, and inspections — various divisions (O 591-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1459

Ward 01
Apostolic Church of God in Christ — congratulation (R 1124-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Fisher, David — condolence (R 1095-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Hicks, Myrtle Hamm — condolence (R 1094-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Stewart, Reverend George O. — congratulation (R 1123-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Williams, Sandra Denise — condolence (R 1096-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 02
E. 108th & E. 110th St. — PPN 135-09-003 & PPN 135-14-079 — Land Reutilization Program —
Union Miles Development Corp. (O 1014-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
E. 93rd St., 3661 — transfer of ownership and location application — liquor permit
(F 1076-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Lewis, Daniel — condolence (R 1098-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Marston Ave., (south side) — sell City-owned property — Union Miles Development Corporation
(O 755-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1465
Public Safety — agreement — CSU Foundation — Cleveland Police Review Board Project —
(Ward 2 NEF) (O 1069-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Tucker, Dorothy — congratulation (R 1121-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

1506

July 9, 2008

The City Record

131

Ward 03
Expanding the Union Miles (Business Revitalization District) — Zoning (O 1001-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 04
Buckeye Rd., 10008 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1060-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423-1452
Buckeye Rd., 11132 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1061-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423-1452
E. 116th St., 2871-75 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1062-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424-1452
E. 116th St., 3019 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1057-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1422-1451
East 93rd St., 3230 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1056-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1422-1451
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Shaker Sq., 13101 — transfer of ownership and location application — liquor permit
(F 1077-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
Woodhill Rd. & Holton Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland RTA (O 889-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1472
Woodhill Rd., 2603 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1063-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424-1453
Woodhill Rd., 2623 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1064-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424-1453
Woodhill Rd., 2890 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1065-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1424-1453

Ward 05
BEDO, LLC — contract — residential rehabilitation — University Lofts project —
2010 Euclid Ave. & 2020 Euclid Ave. — amend Sects. 2 & 3 of Ord. No. 1817-07
(O 999-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399-1478
Broadway Ave., 4643 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1050-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420-1449
Dunnigan, Otha Lee — condolence (R 1090-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
E. 55th St., 2288 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1051-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420-1449
E. 67th St. to E. 69th St., — Land Reutilization Program — Street Holdings LLC
(O 652-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1462
E. 93rd St., 3363 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1054-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1421-1450
Hawthorne Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Petar Oroz (O 509-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1425-1456
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Kinsman Ave., 7535 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1055-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1422-1450
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Sparks-Davis, Nadine — congratulation (R 1127-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Wood- Carr, Gladys — condolence (R 1089-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 06
E. 79th St. — PPN 119-26-065/ 066 / 067 — Land Reutilization Program —
Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation (O 1012-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Master Plan Update Project — (Ward 06 NEF) — agreement — Shaker Square Area
Development Corp. (O 1067-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411-1490
Ovark, Kenneth “ Kenny “ — congratulation (R 1130-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Platt Ave. — PPN 126-02-042 — Land Reutilization Program — Jacqueline L. Parker
(O 1013-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Promoting street pride — banners — E. 122nd St. (Buckeye and Williams) — July 7, 2008
to August 6, 2008 — Buckeye Area Development Corp. — Service Dept.
(O 1070-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 07
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 08
Acknowledge water service at 842 E. 79th St., Cleveland, Ohio — provides storm, sanitary
and industrial waste sewer service (R 1021-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1414-1443
Hairston, Jr., John M. — congratulation (R 1131-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Talley, Alvin Phillip — condolence (R 1097-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

1507

The City Record

132

July 9, 2008

Ward 09
Dundee Dr., 453 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1042-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1418-1447
E. 123rd St., 1163 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1041-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1417-1446
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 10
Hawkins, Dr. Eddie L. — congratulation (R 1128-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Lawrence, Edward — condolence (R 1091-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russ, Carol L. — condolence (R 1092-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Williams, Sandra Denise — condolence (R 1096-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 11
E. 185th St., 770 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1078-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
E. 200th St., 788 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1058-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1422-1451
Gibbons, Reverend Debbie — appreciation (R 1136-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Saranac Rd., 15507 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1059-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1423-1452

Ward 12
E.65th St., 3071 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1030-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1414-1443
Fleet Ave., 6101 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1031-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1414-1443
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Veres, Sister Marie , HM — congratulation (R 1125-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Zaremba, Rose — congratulation (R 1126-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 13
A Guide to Living Downtown Cleveland Project — Downtown Digs — agreement —
economic development — (Ward 13 NEF) — amend Sect. 1 Ord. 894-08
(O 1066-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411-1489
Acquire properties from Cuyahoga County — transfer to Flats East Development LLC., —
State of Ohio (O 1026-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408-1486
Amending Flats East Bank Community Development Plan — Flat District (O 648-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1461
BEDO, LLC — contract — residential rehabilitation — University Lofts project —
2010 Euclid Ave. & 2020 Euclid Ave. — amend Sects. 2 & 3 of Ord. No. 1817-07
(O 999-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399-1478
Bolivar Rd., 727 (Patio) — objection to transfer of Liquor License — liquor permit
(R 1032-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1415-1443
Bolivar Rd., 727 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 1082-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Bridge Ave., 4020 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1053-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1421-1450
Brown, Gregory L. — congratulation (R 1104-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Carnegie Ave., 900 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 879-08 —
liquor permit (R 1049-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420-1449
Center St., 1114 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1079-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
Cooperative Agreement relating to the Series A Bonds — Flats District (O 1022-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403-1481
Cooperative Agreement relating to the Series B Bonds — Flats District (O 1023-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404-1482
Cutietta, Dr. Robert A. — congratulation (R 1102-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
E. 12th & E.13th Sts., — development agreement — amendment to Contract No. 64748 —
Zaremba, Inc. (O 1000-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
E. 33rd St., — Land Reutilization Program — Shun Ting Mo & Catherine Yn Lau
(O 707-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1426-1464
E. 33rd St., — Land Reutilization Program — Tam Ching Chuen (O 708-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1464
E.49th St., 1311 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1033-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1415-1444
Elm St., 2325 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1034-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1415-1444
Embrescia, Fred — condolence (R 1093-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Flats East Bank Community Plan Area — City’s payment — various utility and
infrastructure improvements — amend Sect. 2 Ord. No. 655-06 (O 1025-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407-1486
Froelich, Georgia A. — congratulation (R 1105-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

1508

July 9, 2008

The City Record

133

Front Ave., N.W., & Old River RD. — intent to vacate a portion (R 554-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431-1441
Gateway’s acquisition and re-conveyance — agreement — Ownership, Financing, Construction
and Operation of a Sports Facility and Related Economic and Redevelopment Projects (O 1015-08) . . . . . . . 1393
Gildenmeister, Richard — congratulation (R 1116-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Grund, Graham — congratulation (R 1117-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Hakimzadeh, Dr. Roshanak — congratulation (R 1103-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Harmon, James A. — congratulation (R 1106-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Independence Rd., 3578 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1080-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
Johnson, Angela — congratulation (R 1110-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Jonsson, Hildur Asgeirsdottir — congratulation (R 1109-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Julka, Anand “ Bill “ — congratulation (R 1099-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Kahan, Mitchell — congratulation (R 1113-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Lakeside Ave., 3232 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1035-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1416-1444
Lucas, Craig — congratulation (R 1112-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Lutheran Hospital Medical Offices — recognition (R 1133-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
McCartney, Mike — recognition (R 1134-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Moravec, Dr. Christine S. — congratulation (R 1101-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Organization of Flat East New Community Development Authority — Flat District (O 1024-08) . . . . . . . . . . 1407-1485
Outdoor sales by ticket brokers — enacting new Sects.698A.01 and 698A.99 —
amend Sec. 698.06 (O 961-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1476
Payne Ave., 3009 — objection to transfer of Liquor License — liquor permit (R 1036-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1416-1445
Payne Ave., 3009 — transfer of location application — liquor permit (F 1083-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Rose, Melvin — congratulation (R 1111-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Ruhlman, Michael — congratulation (R 1114-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
St. Clair Ave., 4059 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1037-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1416-1445
St. Clair Ave., 6702 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1038-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1417-1445
Starkweather Ave., 761 — Economic Development — transfer to another taxing district
application — liquor permit (F 1081-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379
Stonebridge Towers Ltd., encroachment permit — public right-of-way — Detroit Ave., —
Public Service Dept. (O 994-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
Superior Ave., 2553 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1039-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1417-1446
Symon, Michael — congratulation (R 1115-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
To apply & accept a grant from the State of Ohio — purchase property — Flats East Bank
Project (O 649-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1461
Valleyview Homes Hope VI Phase Two — subdivision plats — City Planning Commission —
Service Department (F 1011-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Vanderbrook, Don — congratulation (R 1118-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Visconti, Dan — congratulation (R 1108-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
W. 14th St., 3146 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1040-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1417-1446
Western Reserve Fire Museum — congratulation (R 1107-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Yan, Ellis Z. — congratulation (R 1100-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 14
Clark Ave., 5110 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1043-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1418-1447
Fulton Rd., 3463 — withdraw objection to transfer of Liquor License — repeal Res. 966-08 —
liquor permit (R 1047-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1419-1448
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Mangus, Mark Alan — congratulation (R 1122-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Mega FUN Day — banners — intersections of Scranton Rd. & Buhrer Ave. —
July 21, 2008 to August 18, 2008 — Mega Church — Service Dept. (O 1071-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Scranton Rd., 3101 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1044-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1418-1447
W. 25th St., 2132 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1046-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1419-1448
W. 44th St., 3238 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1045-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1419-1448
W. 44th St., 3353 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 1084-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
W. 44th St., 3382 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1052-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1421-1449

Ward 15
Change the Use, Area and Height District — N. side of Denison Ave. —
Multi-Family Residential District (O 558-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431-1457
Denison Ave. (north and south side) — between W. 16th St. & W. 13th St. —
change the Use, Area and Height Districts — Local Retail Business, a ‘B’
Area District and a ‘2’ Height District (O 1069-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431-1454
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

1509

The City Record

134

July 9, 2008

Ward 16
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 17
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Lutheran Hospital Medical Offices — recognition (R 1133-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Timko, Sr., Anthony S. — commendation (R 1137-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
W. 85th St., (northeast corner) & Madison Ave., — changing Use, Area and
Height Districts — zoning (O 1002-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1398

Ward 18
Cudell Improvement Inc., — W.98th St.(14 banners attached CPP utility poles) —
Service Dept. (O 934-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1429-1473
Dreyer, Allan B. — congratulation (R 1119-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 19
Intention to appropriate property at 11850 Lorain Ave. — blighted premises (Ward 19)
(R 1003-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Lorain Ave., 12524 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1048-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420-1448
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
W. 117th St., 3050 — liquor agency contract — liquor permit (F 1085-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
W. 117th St., 3519 — new application — liquor permit (F 1086-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 20
Brown, Gregory L. — congratulation (R 1104-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Cutietta, Dr. Robert A. — congratulation (R 1102-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
DeVaul, Randall E. — congratulation (R 1132-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Froelich, Georgia A. — congratulation (R 1105-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Hakimzadeh, Dr. Roshanak — congratulation (R 1103-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Harmon, James A. — congratulation (R 1106-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Julka, Anand “ Bill “ — congratulation (R 1099-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Jurcsisn, John A. — appreciation (R 1135-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Moravec, Dr. Christine S. — congratulation (R 1101-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Parks, Recreation and Properties — agreement — Breakers of Rocky River —
recreational softball baseball program (Ward 20 NEF) (O 1068-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412-1490
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
St. Paul A.M.E. Church — granting easement — Emery Park (between Emery Ave. &
W. 130th St.) (O 757-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1427-1465
Timko, Sr., Anthony S. — commendation (R 1137-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
WIRE- NET — congratulation (R 1120-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Yan, Ellis Z. — congratulation (R 1100-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Ward 21
Jones, Helen Kroeger — condolence (R 1088-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Kilbane, Patrick & Ann — congratulation (R 1129-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
Russert, Tim — condolence (R 1087-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380

Water Division
Acknowledge water service at 1121 E. 260th St., Euclid, Ohio — Ray Fogg Building
Methods, Inc. (R 1017-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1413-1442
Acknowledge water service at 23555 Euclid Avenue, Euclid, Ohio — HBP Euclid Corp.
(R 1018-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1413-1442
Acknowledge water service at 842 E. 79th St., Cleveland, Ohio — provides storm, sanitary
and industrial waste sewer service (R 1021-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1414-1443

1510

July 9, 2008

The City Record

135

Acknowledge water service at Cuyahoga Valley Industrial Center City Project — provides
storm, sanitary and industrial waste sewer service to Independence & Pershing Ave.
(R 1020-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1413-1442
Acknowledge water service at Strongsville Project (Strongsville, Ohio) (R 1019-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1413-1442
Flats East Bank Community Plan Area — City’s payment — various utility and infrastructure
improvements — amend Sect. 2 Ord. No. 655-06 (O 1025-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407-1486
Paladin Protective Systems, Inc. — contracts — to maintain, repair & upgrade Utilities
Department security systems (O 986-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387

Water Pollution Control Division
Acknowledge water service at 842 E. 79th St., Cleveland, Ohio — provides storm, sanitary
and industrial waste sewer service (R 1021-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1414-1443
Acknowledge water service at Cuyahoga Valley Industrial Center City Project — provides
storm, sanitary and industrial waste sewer service to Independence & Pershing Ave.
(R 1020-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1413-1442
Public Utilities — Audits of Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 2007
and 2006. (F 1075-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1379

Zoning
Change the Use, Area and Height District — N. side of Denison Ave. —
Multi-Family Residential District (O 558-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431-1457
Denison Ave. (north and south side) — between W. 16th St. & W. 13th St. — change the Use,
Area and Height Districts — Local Retail Business, a ‘B’ Area District and a
‘2’ Height District (O 1069-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1431-1454
Expanding the Union Miles (Business Revitalization District) — Zoning (O 1001-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
W. 85th St., (northeast corner) & Madison Ave., — changing Use, Area and Height Districts —
zoning — Broadway Ave., 4643 — objection to renewal — liquor permit (R 1050-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420-1449
Ward 17) (O 1002-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1398

1511

