The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

January the Sixteenth, Two Thousand and Eight

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
37
38
40
40
41
42
42
43
44
48
49

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Nina Turner..................................................16204 Sunny Glen Avenue
44128
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – ____________, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Angel Guzman, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley; Councilman Nina Turner.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue

POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

AUDIT COMMITTEE – Robert Rawson, Chairman; Yvette Ittu, Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis,
Don Neebes, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.

CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Laura M. Bala, Chair; Jennifer
Coleman, Vice Chair; Robert N. Brown, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Thomas
Coffey, Robert Jackimowicz; Ari Maron, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John
Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert Keiser, Secretary.

CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
14B
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12A
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles Patton, Jr.
12B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Michael John Ryan
12C
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak –
Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2008

Vol. 95

No. 4910

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2008
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at

www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Turner.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: _____, Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley,
Reed, Santiago, Westbrook.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek,
Reed,
Santiago,
White.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Keane, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Lewis, Pierce
Scott, Reed, White.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Coats,
Conwell, Pierce Scott, Westbrook,
White, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cimperman, Cummins, Coats,
Lewis, Westbrook. Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Coats, Conwell, Johnson, Turner.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;

Westbrook, Vice Chair; Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Keane, Turner.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Coats,
Cummins,
Kelley,
Polensek, Santiago, Turner.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Cummins, Keane, Kelley,
Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Keane,
Lewis, Reed, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee: Westbrook, Chair; Kelley, Pierce
Scott, Santiago, Sweeney, White.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, January 14, 2008
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Britt, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Coats,
Conwell,
Cummins,
Johnson,
Keane,
Kelley,
Lewis,
Polensek, Santiago, Pierce Scott,
Sweeney, Turner, Westbrook, White
and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson; Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff; Valarie J. McCall, Chief of
Government
Affairs;
Monyka
S.
Price, Chief of Education; Maureen
Harper, Chief of Communications;
Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary;
Debra Linn Talley, Director of
Office of Equal Opportunity; and
Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Smith,
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Rybka, Hutchinson, Fumich, Griffin,
Brown, and Interim Director Weathers.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
a prayer was offered by Rev. Gordon Martin, Pastor of Prince of
Peace Outreach and Deliverance
Ministries, located at 5405 Storer
Avenue in Ward 17. Pledge of Allegiance.

37

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Polensek, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting were dispensed with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member
Keane.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 79-08.
From the Cuyahoga County Board
of Elections — Certificate of Result
of Official Count, City General Election November 6, 2007. Received.
File No. 80-08.
From Private Client Group —
National City Bank Account Statement. Received.
File No. 81-08.
From Emerald Development &
Economic Network, Inc. — re: Northridge Commons Public Notification
Letter. (Ward 19). Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 82-08.
Re: New Application — 7184639 —
Ralston’s Auto Care, Inc., d.b.a.
Broadview Schaaf Marathon, 4661
Broadview Road. (Ward 16). Received.
File No. 83-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 0037000 — Raye’z Abukhalil, d.b.a. Frank’s Beverage, 1271317 Woodside Avenue, first floor and
basement. (Ward 9). Received.
File No. 84-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 6983587 — Pla Enterprises,
Inc., 3500 Brookpark Road. (Ward
16). Received.
COMMUNICATION
File No. 85-08.
January 11, 2008
Martin J. Sweeney, President
Cleveland City Council
601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 220
Cleveland, OH 44114
Dear Council President Sweeney:
This letter serves as my resignation, effective today, from Cleveland
City Council. It has been a pleasure
to represent the residents of Cleveland’s Ward 6 community for nearly thirteen years, and my greatest
honor to serve with all of my colleagues in such an august body.
Sincerely,
Patricia J. Britt
Received.

The City Record

4
ELECTION TO FILL
VACANCY IN WARD 6
The Clerk of Council Pro Tempore
read a letter of resignation from
Council Member Patricia J. Britt. The
President of Council accepted the
resignation and declared a vacancy
in Ward 6. Council Member Kevin J.
Kelley nominated Mamie J. Mitchell
to serve as Council Member representing Ward 6. Council Member
Sabra Pierce Scott seconded the nomination. Council Member Robert J.
White moved that the nominations
be closed. Without objection, the
nominations were closed. Thereupon,
the President of Council instructed
the members of Council to state the
name of the candidate when responding to the roll call, and requested the
Clerk of Council Pro Tempore to call
the roll upon the election of Council
Member of Ward 6. Upon completion
of the roll call, the Clerk announced
that Mamie J. Mitchell received 19
votes. Those who voted for Mamie J.
Mitchell
were
Council
Members:
Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Lewis,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek,
Santiago,
Turner, Westbrook, White and Zone.
The Chair declared Mamie J.
Mitchell, having received the unanimous vote of all the members elected to Council to be the duly elected
Council Member of Ward 6.
The President requested Council
Members Joe Santiago and Martin J.
Keane to escort the duly elected
Member of Council to the podium to
have the oath of office administered
by The Honorable Larry A. Jones,
Presiding and Administrative Judge
of Cleveland Municipal Court and
the Honorable Bridget M. McCaffery,
Judge, Cuyahoga County Common
Pleas Court.
Council Member Mitchell took her
seat in the Council Chambers and
introduced and thanked her family,
friends and constituents and then
assumed the duties of the Council,
representing, Ward 6.
Council Member Reed entered the
meeting.
File No. 86-08.

County of Cuyahoga

ELECTION OF COUNCIL CLERK

CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS

Council President Martin J. Sweeney declared a vacancy in the
Office of the Clerk of Council. The
floor was opened for nominations.
Council Member Kenneth L. Johnson nominated Patricia J. Britt to
be the Clerk of Council for the
remainder of the current 2006 –
2009 Council Term. Council Member
Sabra Pierce Scott seconded the
nomination. Council Member Robert
J. White moved that the nominations be closed. Without objection,
the nominations were closed. Council President Sweeney instructed
the members of Council to state the
name of Patricia J. Britt when
responding to the roll call, and
requested the Clerk of Council Pro
Tempore, Sandra Franklin, to call
the roll upon the election of Clerk
of Council. Upon completion of the
roll call, the Clerk of Council Pro
Tempore
announced
Patricia
J.
Britt received the unanimous 21
votes of the Council of the City of
Cleveland. Those who voted for Ms.
Britt
were
Council
Members:
Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell,
Cummins, Johnson, Keane, Kelley,
Lewis,
Mitchell,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek, Reed, Santiago, Turner,
Westbrook, White, and Zone.
The Chair declared Patricia J.
Britt, having received the unanimous vote of all the members elected to Council to be the duly elected
Clerk of Council.
The newly elected Clerk of Council was escorted to the podium by
Council Members Kenneth L. Johnson and Jay Westbrook and her husband, Phillip White, to have the
oath of office administered by The
Honorable Kathleen O’Malley, Domestic Relations Judge, Cuyahoga
County Common Pleas Court. Council Clerk Britt thanked the members
of Council, made brief remarks and
began the duties of the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:

File No. 87-08.
OATH OF OFFICE

OATH OF OFFICE
State of Ohio

January 16, 2008

)
)SS.
)

I, Mamie J. Mitchell, do solemnly
swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States, the
Constitution of the State of Ohio,
and the Charter of the City of Cleveland, and that I will faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the
duties of the office of Ward 6 Member of the Council of the City of
Cleveland, State of Ohio, during my
continuance in said office.

State of Ohio
County of Cuyahoga

)
)SS.
)

I, Patricia J. Britt, do solemnly
swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States, the
Constitution of the State of Ohio,
and the Charter of the City of Cleveland, and that I will faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the
duties of the office of the Clerk of
the Council of the City of Cleveland,
State of Ohio, during my continuance in said office.

MAMIE J. MITCHELL

PATRICIA J. BRITT

Sworn to before me and subscribed in my presence this 14th day
of January, 2008.

Sworn to before me and subscribed in my presence this 14th day
of January, 2008.

ALLAN B. DREYER,
Notary Public, State of Ohio
Recorded in Cuyahoga County
My Commission Expires
November 2, 2012

ALLAN B. DREYER,
Notary Public, State of Ohio
Recorded in Cuyahoga County
My Commission Expires
November 2, 2012

Received.

Received.

38

Res. No. 88-08—David Holtkamp.
Res. No. 89-08—Randell Herbert
Hardy.
Res. No. 90-08—Christine Carmicle
Keely-Coleman.
Res. No. 91-08 — Christopher Eugene Summers, Sr.
Res. No. 92-08—John W. Moss.
Res. No. 93-08—Rocko Olivera.
Res. No. 94-08 — Engracia Rivera
DeJesus.
Res. No. 95-08—James Baker.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 96-08 — A.M.L.A., Lodge
Kras, No. 8.
APPRECIATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 97-08—Ines Jimenez.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 56-08.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Brady and Cimperman (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Marco and Shelia
Periandri to encroach into the public right-of-way of a portion of
Justin Avenue S.W. by installing,
using, and maintaining a fence and
other backyard amenities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to Marco and Shelia Periandri, 4712 West 150th Street Cleveland Ohio 44135 (“Permittee”), to
encroach into the public right-ofway of Justin Avenue S.W. by installing, using, and maintaining a
fence and other backyard amenities,
at the following location:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and being a portion of Justin
Avenue S.W. (50 feet wide) in
Matherson
Building
Company’s
Willman Avenue Subdivision No. 2
of part of Original Rockport Township Section No. 2 as shown by the
recorded plat in Vol. 154 of maps,
Page 35 and Cleveland Manufacturing Sites Subdivision of part of
Original Rockport Township Section No.’s 2 and 3 as shown by the
recorded plat in Vol. 161 of maps,
Page 22 and 23 of Cuyahoga County Records and further described as
follows:
Beginning at a stone monument at
the intersection of the centerlines of
West 156th Street (50 feet wide) and
Louis Avenue (50 feet wide);

January 16, 2008
Thence S 17° 50' 12" W along said
centerline of West 156th Street (50
feet wide) 83.17 feet to a point of
curvature;
Thence continuing along the centerline of said West 156th Street and
becoming Justin Avenue S.W. (50
feet wide) along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, having a
radius of 1070.73, a delta of 38° 00'
49" and a chord which bears S 36°
50' 36" E 70.17 feet, a distance of
71.74 feet to the principle place of
beginning;
Thence N 31° 27' 08" W 25.03 feet
to a point on the curved northerly
right-of-way of Justin Avenue S.W.
(50 feet wide);
Thence Southwesterly along said
northerly
right-of-way
of
Justin
Avenue S.W. (50 feet wide) along
the arc of the curve deflecting to
the right, having a radius of 82.73
feet, a delta of 36° 00' 09" and a
chord which bears S 73° 02' 08" W
51.13 feet, a distance of 51.98 feet to
a point of tangency;
Thence
continuing
along
said
northerly right-of-way of Justin Avenue S.W.(50 feet wide) 19.95 feet to
the point of intersection with the
Brookline allotment as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 46 of Maps,
page
29
of
Cuyahoga,
County
records;
Thence S 01° 08' 00" W along said
Brookline allotment line and its
southwesterly projection 50.00 feet
to its intersection with the southerly
right-of-way of said Justin Avenue
S.W. (50 feet wide);
Thence S 88° 58' 20" E along said
southerly right-of-way of said Justin
Avenue S.W. (50 feet wide) 20.04
feet to a point of curvature;
Thence continuing along the southerly right-of-way of said Justin Avenue S.W. (50 feet wide) along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the left,
having a radius of 132.73 feet, a
delta of 34° 40' 34", a chord which
bears N 73° 41' 48" E 79.11 feet, a
distance of 80.33 feet to a point on
said curve;
Thence N 31° 27' 08" W 25.03 feet
to the point of beginning containing
3,622.41 sq. ft. be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by
this ordinance shall conform to
plans and specifications approved
by the Commissioner of Engineering
and Construction. That Permittee
shall obtain all other required permits, including but not limited to
Building Permits, before installing
the encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, Permittee has
properly
indemnified
the
City
against any loss that may result
from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).

The City Record
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 57-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
University Hospital for the Cleveland High Visibility Enforcement
Overtime Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $63,582.79, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from University Hospital to conduct
the Cleveland High Visibility Enforcement Overtime Program; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes described in the grant agreement for
the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the grant agreement for the grant, File No. 57-08-A,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 58-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
University Hospitals for the Cuyahoga County OVI Task Force Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

39

5
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $18,368.79,
and any other funds that may
become available during the grant
term from University Hospitals to
conduct the Cuyahoga County OVI
Task Force Program; that the Director is authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds under the
grant; and that the funds are appropriated for the purposes described in
the grant agreement for the grant
contained
in
the
file
described
below.
Section 2. That the grant agreement for the grant, File No. 58-07-A,
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 59-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contract
with The K & D Group, Inc., or its
designee, to provide development
assistance to partially finance the
acquisition and redevelopment of
the Atrium Office Plaza Complex,
located in the historic Gateway District, and certain other costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has determined that to
assist
with
business
expansion,
retain and create jobs within the
City of Cleveland, and increase the
City’s tax base, it is in the public
interest and a proper public purpose
for the City to provide financing
assistance for projects that have
business retention, expansion, and
attraction implication or that have
certain job creation potential; and
Whereas, in compliance with Section 13, of Article VIII, Ohio Constitution, the City has established
the Cleveland Citywide Development Corporation for review of proposed economic development projects; and
Whereas, this project has been
reviewed by the City Department of
Community Development and approved by the Cleveland Citywide
Development Corporation at its December 20, 2007 meeting; and
Whereas, Council desires to authorize the development assistance to
the project which has been reviewed

6
by the Department of Community
Development and approved by the
Cleveland Citywide Development Corporation in compliance with the Ohio
Constitution and statutory requirements; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, provided The K &
D Group, Inc., or its designee, submits documents required by the
City’s bond counsel, the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into contract with The
K & D Group, Inc., or its designee,
to provide development assistance to
partially finance the acquisition and
redevelopment of the Atrium Office
Plaza Complex, located in the historic Gateway District, and certain
other costs necessary to redevelop
the property.
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the
terms set forth in the Summary
contained in File No. 59-08-A, as
presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation and
shall not be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract shall not exceed $5,100,000, and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 10 SF
545, 10 SF 551, and 17 SF 008, which
funds are appropriated for this purpose, Request No. 178621.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept the collateral as set
forth in the file referenced above in
order to secure repayment of the
loan. Any loan agreement, security
instrument, or other document shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund Nos. 10 SF 546, 10
SF 554, and 17 SF 008.
Section 6. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 10 SF
546, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. The contract authorized
in this legislation will require the
recipient of financial assistance to
work with The Workforce Investment Board for Workforce Area No.
3 to identify and solicit qualified
candidates
for
job
opportunities
related to the City’s contracts, and
place special emphasis on the hard
to employ, including but not limited
to the disabled and persons who
have been convicted of or plead
guilty to a criminal offense, unless
the criminal conviction or related
circumstances relate to the duties
for the particular job sought.

The City Record
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 61-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Kelley, Johnson and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing an amendment to Contract No.
64994 between the City and the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County
Port
Authority to reduce the square
footage of the property leased for
parking on Dock 32; and authorizing the Directors of City Planning
and Port Control to lease certain
property located at North Coast Harbor to the Great Lakes Science Center, for the purpose of constructing
an enclosed all-weather pedestrian
connector between the Science Center and the Steamship Mather.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 96605, passed June 6, 2005, this Council
authorized the lease of all of the
property on Dock 32 to the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority (“Port Authority”), Contract No.
64994 (“Dock 32 Lease”), for the purpose of creating parking income
over the next five years to supplement the City’s capital repair fund;
and
Whereas, the Great Lakes Science
Center (“Science Center”) has proposed to lease property from the
City which includes property on
Dock 32 previously leased to the
Port Authority for the purpose of
constructing an enclosed all-weather
pedestrian
connector
(“Connector
Lease”) between the Science Center
and the Steamship Mather;
Whereas,
the
City
desires
to
amend the Dock 32 Lease with Port
Authority to remove approximately
26 parking spaces or 10,000 square
feet of parking lot from their lease
and lease the removed property to
the Science Center for the construction of the Connector; and
Whereas, the Connector Lease and
the Dock 32 Lease amendment are
desired by the City in order to
attract more museum patrons to the
North Coast Harbor area; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Port Control are authorized to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 64994 between the City and the
Port Authority to reduce the square
footage of the leased property on
Dock 32 by approximately 10,000
square feet, as detailed in the Exhibit “B” and placed in the file contained in this ordinance.
All other terms and conditions
contained in Contract No. 64994 shall
remain the same.

40

January 16, 2008
Section 2. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Directors of City
Planning
and
Port
Control
are
authorized to lease to the Science
Center, the property (which includes
two aerial connecting canopies, an
encroachment for canopy support
poles and a Temporary Staging
Area) identified on the map known
as Exhibit “A” and placed in File
No. 61-08-A (“Property”) upon a determination by the Board of Control
that the Property is not needed for
public use for the term of the Connector Lease and any extension
thereof.
Section 3. That the term of the
Connector Lease authorized by this
ordinance shall commence on the
effective date of the Connector
Lease and shall continue through
July 9, 2043. The term of the Connector Lease may be renewed by the
Science Center for an additional 45
years, subject to approval by the
City’s Board of Control. City may
terminate this Connector Lease prior
to the end of the term or any extension thereof if the Mather Steamship
fails to operate as a museum open
to the public for less than six
months in any one calendar year
without the prior approval of the
City.
Section 4. That the Science Center
shall pay as rent to the City the fair
market value of the Property based
on adjacent parking lot fees which
shall be determined by the City’s
Board of Control on an annual basis.
Section 5. That all rent money
received for the above Property
shall be deposited in Fund No. 20 SF
495 to be used by the Director of
Port Control exclusively for capital
repairs located on North Coast Harbor.
Section 6. That the Connector
Lease may authorize the Science
Center to make improvements to the
Property subject to the approval of
appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 7. That the Connector
Lease and the Dock 32 Lease amendment shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. That the Directors of
City Planning, Port Control, Law,
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and other appropriate City officials
are authorized to execute any other
documents and certificates, and take
any other actions which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
Lease and Amendment authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Parks, Recreation and Properties,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.

January 16, 2008
Ord. No. 62-08.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1850-04,
passed November 15, 2004 and to
amend Section 8 of Ordinance No.
844-07, passed June 11, 2007, relating
to the future development of the
Canal Basin Park.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1276-04, passed August 11, 2004, this
Council authorized the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
among other things, to apply for and
accept a grant in the amount of
$434,200 from the Ohio Public Works
Commission and to accept gifts from
public and private entities to implement the Canal Basin Park Project;
and
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1850-04, passed November 15, 2004,
this Council also authorized the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties to apply for and accept a
grant in the amount of $2,968,432
from the United States for the Canal
Basin Park Project; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 84407, passed June 11, 2007, this Council authorized, among other things,
various contracts to implement the
Canal Basin Park Project, including
but not limited to, the acquisition of
land and contracting for land assembly services; and
Whereas, it is necessary to use
the funding sources from Ordinance
Nos. 1276-04 and 1850-04 to facilitate
the purchase and acquisition of
properties, including land assembly
services, as authorized in Ordinance
No. 844-07; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1850-04, passed November
15, 2004, is amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the letter for the
grant, File No. 1850-04-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, including the obligation
of the City of Cleveland, to provide
cash matching funds in the sum not
to exceed $1,300,000, from the fund
or funds to which are credited any
grant proceeds or donations received
under Ordinance No. 1276-04, passed
August 11, 2004, and from the fund
or funds deemed appropriate by the
Director
of
Finance
which
are
appropriated for these purposes.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1850-04, passed November
15, 2004, are repealed.
Section 3. That Section 8 of Ordinance No. 844-07, passed June 11,
2007, is amended to read as follows:
Section 8. That all costs of contracts and Properties acquisition
authorized
under
this
ordinance
shall be paid from the fund or funds
to which are credited the grant proceeds and the cash match authorized
under Ordinance No. 1850-04, passed
November 15, 2004.
Section 4. That existing Section 8
of Ordinance No. 844-07, passed June
11, 2007, is repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the

The City Record
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 63-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds by the
City for the purpose of financing
capital costs of Cleveland Public
Power; authorizing hedge agreements; authorizing a supplemental
indenture and certain other documents related thereto; and authorizing and approving related matters.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Ohio (the “City”), a municipal corporation and political subdivision in
and of the State of Ohio, is authorized and empowered pursuant to
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
the State of Ohio and the Charter of
the City, among other things: (a) to
own and operate the public utility
hereinafter defined and referred to
as “Cleveland Public Power”; (b) to
make, from time to time, such additions, extensions, improvements, replacements and alterations to Cleveland Public Power as it may deem
advisable; (c) to borrow money for
the purpose of providing funds for
such additions, extensions, improvements, replacements and alterations
and to refund obligations issued for
such purpose; (d) to issue its Series
2008 Bonds, as hereinafter defined,
for such purpose in the manner and
on the terms set forth in the Indenture, as hereinafter defined; and (e)
to secure the Series 2008 Bonds by
a pledge of and lien on the Net Revenues, as hereinafter defined, of
Cleveland Public Power; and
Whereas, by and pursuant to Ordinance No. 1516-91, duly passed on
July 24, 1991 (the “Original Bond
Legislation”), this Council authorized the issuance of Public Power
System Improvement First Mortgage
Revenue Bonds, dated September 1,
1991 in the aggregate principal
amount of $66,930,000 consisting of
Series 1991A Bonds in the aggregate
amount of $13,895,000 for the purposes of paying Capital Costs and
Series 1991B Bonds in the aggregate
amount of $53,035,000 for the purpose of refunding all of the outstanding revenue bonds that had
previously been issued for Cleveland
Public Power (collectively herein
the “Series 1991 Bonds”), all as
defined in the Original Bond Legislation; and
Whereas, the Series 1991 Bonds
were issued under and secured on a
parity with any Additional Bonds by
a Trust Indenture, dated as of September 1, 1991 (the “Original Indenture”), between the City and Star
Bank, N.A., Cincinnati, Ohio, as
Trustee, now known as U.S. Bank
National Association (the “Trustee”);
and
Whereas, the Original Bond Legislation provides, in Section 12 thereof, that the City may issue Addi-

41

7
tional Bonds on a parity with the
Series 1991 Bonds for certain purposes including the payment of Capital Costs and the refunding of
obligations issued for that purpose;
and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1133-93, duly passed on June 7,
1993, this Council authorized the
issuance of Additional Bonds, entitled Public Power System First
Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Series
1994A (the “Series 1994A Bonds”), in
the aggregate principal amount of
$179,775,000, for the purpose of providing funds for Capital Costs and
to refund notes issued for such purpose; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 55-94, duly passed on June 6,
1994, this Council authorized the
issuance of Additional Bonds, entitled Public Power System First
Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Series
1994B (the “Series 1994B Bonds”) in
the aggregate principal amount of
$39,330,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the payment of a
judgment involving the City and
Cleveland Public Power and to
refund notes issued for such purposes (the Series 1994A Bonds and
the Series 1994B Bonds are hereinafter collectively referred to as
the “Series 1994 Bonds”); and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1003-95, duly passed on June 19,
1995, this Council authorized the
issuance of Additional Bonds entitled Public Power System First
Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Series
1996, Sub-Series 1 (the “Series 1996
Bonds”) in the aggregate principal
amount of $123,720,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the
refunding of a portion of the Series
1994A Bonds; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 816-98, duly passed on June 8,
1998, this Council authorized the
issuance of Additional Bonds entitled Public Power System Revenue
Bonds, Series 1998 (the “Series 1998
Bonds”) in the aggregate principal
amount of $44,840,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the
refunding of a portion of the Series
1991 Bonds and a portion of the
Series 1994A Bonds; and
Whereas, further pursuant to Ordinance No. 816-98, this Council authorized the issuance of Additional
Bonds entitled Public Power System
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
2001 (the “Series 2001 Bonds”) in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$41,925,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the current refunding of a portion of the Series 1991
Bonds; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 290-06, duly passed on March 20,
2006, this Council authorized the
issuance of Additional Bonds entitled Public Power System Refunding
Revenue Bonds, Series 2006A-1 (the
“Series 2006A-1 Bonds”) in the aggregate principal amount of $95,265,000,
for the purpose of providing funds
for the current refunding of a portion of the Series 1996 Bonds; and
Whereas, further pursuant to Ordinance No. 290-06, this Council authorized the issuance of Additional
Bonds entitled Public Power System
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
2006A-2 (the “Series 2006A-2 Bonds”)
in the aggregate principal amount
of $12,295,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the advance refund-

8
ing of a portion of the Series 1994A
Bonds; and
Whereas, further pursuant to Ordinance No. 290-06, this Council authorized the issuance of Additional
Bonds entitled Public Power System
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
2006B (the “Series 2006B Bonds”) in
the aggregate principal amount of
$20,325,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the current refunding of a portion of the Series 1996
Bonds (the Series 2006A-1 Bonds, the
Series 2006A-2 Bonds and the Series
2006B Bonds are hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Series 2006
Bonds”); and
Whereas, further pursuant to Ordinance No. 290-06, the City entered
into the Amended and Restated
Trust Indenture (Sixth Supplemental Indenture), dated as of August
17, 2006, amending, supplementing,
restating and superseding the Original Indenture as previously amended and supplemented; and
Whereas, this Council has further
determined that it is necessary for
the City to make additional capital
improvements to Cleveland Public
Power and that its doing so will
serve a proper public municipal purpose by preserving and enhancing
the efficiency and economy with
which Cleveland Public Power provides services to its users; and
Whereas, this Council has further
determined that, in order to provide
funds for such capital improvements, it will be necessary for the
City to issue and sell Additional
Bonds on the terms set forth herein;
and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the City to enter
into interest rate swap, swaption
and other hedging arrangements
with respect to the Outstanding
Bonds and the Series 2008 Bonds as
provided in this Ordinance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that authorizing the
Series 2008 Bonds to provide funds
for capital is necessary to enable
Cleveland Public Power to take
advantage of favorable market conditions on a timely basis to obtain
debt service savings; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined in
the
Amended
and
Restated
Indenture as previously amended and
supplemented, which shall have the
same meaning herein as therein
unless otherwise defined herein or
unless the context or use otherwise
indicates, the following words and
terms as used in this Ordinance, the
Indenture and the Series 2008 Bonds
(each as hereinafter defined) shall
have the following meanings unless
the context or use otherwise indicates. Words importing the singular
number shall include the plural
number, and vice versa, and the
terms “hereof,” “herein,” “hereby,”
“hereto,” and “hereunder” and similar terms refer to this Series 2008
Bond Legislation and the Indenture,
unless the context otherwise indicates. The use of 2008 in the definition of the Bonds, Bond Legislation,
Certificate of Award and other

The City Record
defined terms shall not be construed
to require the issuance of the Series
2008 Bonds of any series in calendar
year 2008. The Director of Finance
shall replace 2008 with the calendar
year in which the bonds are actually issued and may make further designations in nomenclature as may
be appropriate.
“Amended and Restated Indenture”
means
the
Amended
and
Restated Trust Indenture (Sixth
Supplemental Indenture), dated as
of August 17, 2006, between the City
and the Trustee, supplementing,
amending, restating and superseding the Original Indenture as previously amended and supplemented,
as the same has been and may further be duly supplemented, amended
or modified from time to time in
accordance
with
the
provisions
thereof.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance the security or liquidity of
any Series 2008 Bonds or any Hedge
Agreements in accordance with the
Indenture.
“Eighth Supplemental Indenture”
means
the
Eighth
Supplemental
Indenture (which may consist of
more than one Supplemental Indenture with appropriate distinguishing
designations
if
the
Series
2008
Bonds are issued in more than one
series), provided for in Section 8
hereof between the City and the
Trustee, including this Series 2008
Bond Legislation as part thereof, as
the same may be duly supplemented, amended or modified from time
to time in accordance with the provisions hereof.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance
of the City, from time to time, in
connection with the Series 2008
Bonds or any Hedge Agreement.
“Hedge Agreement” has the meaning given in Section 4 of this Series
2008 Bond Legislation.
“Indenture” means the Amended
and Restated Indenture as amended
and supplemented by the Seventh
Supplemental
Indenture
and
the
Eighth Supplemental Indenture, and
as the same may be further supplemented, amended or modified from
time to time in accordance with the
provisions thereof.
“Series 2008 Bond Legislation”
means this Ordinance, constituting
part of the Eighth Supplemental
Indenture.
“Series 2008 Bond Purchase Agreement” means one or more Bond Purchase Agreements between the City
and the Original Purchaser of the
Series 2008 Bonds, authorized in Section 6 hereof.
“Series 2008 Bonds” means the
City’s Public Power System Revenue
Bonds, Series 2008 authorized pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
“Series 2008 Certificate of Award”
means the one or more certificates
authorized pursuant to Section 6
hereof.
Section 2. Authority. This Series
2008 Bond Legislation is adopted
pursuant to Sections 3, 4 and 12 of
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
the State, and the City’s Charter.
Section 3. Authorization of Series
2008 Bonds. This Council finds and

42

January 16, 2008
determines it is necessary and proper and in the best interest of the
City to authorize the issuance of the
Series 2008 Bonds for the purpose of
paying Capital Costs. The Series
2008 Bonds may be issued in one or
more separate series. The principal
amount of each series of Series 2008
Bonds is to be the amount set forth
in the Series 2008 Certificate of
Award authorized in Section 6 and
shall be the amount determined by
the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to be necessary (i) to pay
Capital Costs, (ii) to fund any
deposit to the Bond Service Reserve
Fund or the Renewal and Replacement
Fund
required
under
the
Indenture, (iii) to pay costs of any
Credit Support Instruments, (iv) to
pay identified amounts owed under
Hedge Agreements, and (v) to pay
costs of issuing the Series 2008
Bonds. The proceeds from the sale
of each series of Series 2008 Bonds
shall be allocated, deposited and
applied as provided in Section 7 of
this Ordinance.
The Series 2008 Bonds may be
issued in one or more separate
series, each bearing a distinctive
designation, provided that the Series
2008 Bonds of each series satisfy the
requirements of this Series 2008
Bond Legislation and the Indenture.
Separate series of Series 2008 Bonds
may be issued at the same or different times. The Series 2008 Bonds
of each series shall be designated as
provided in the applicable Certificate of Award (including replacing
references to 2008 to the calendar
year in which the obligations are
issued). A separate Certificate of
Award and a separate Supplemental
Indenture may be delivered for each
series. Costs of issuance of the
Series 2008 Bonds and any required
deposit to the Bond Service Reserve
Fund attributable to the Series 2008
Bonds shall, in each case, be included in the costs funded from the proceeds of the Series 2008 Bonds. The
Series 2008 Bonds shall constitute
Bonds for all purposes of the Indenture.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Series 2008
Bonds to pay Capital Costs serves a
proper, public, municipal purpose by
preserving and enhancing the efficiency and economy with which
Cleveland Public Power provides
services to its users.
Section 4. Authorization of Hedging
Arrangements.
This
Council
finds that by engaging in interest
rate hedging arrangements from
time to time, the City may reduce
its cost of borrowing by optimizing
the relative amounts of fixed and
variable rate obligations and minimizing the risk of variations in its
debt service costs. Certain types of
hedging arrangements (referred to
in this Series 2008 Bond Legislation
as “swaptions”) may enable the City
to obtain savings prior to the
issuance of Series 2008 Bonds by
providing for an upfront payment to
the City by a financial institution or
other organization that is the counterparty to the hedge arrangement
in consideration of the City’s giving
the counterparty the option to make
effective at a future date an interest rate exchange transaction with
the City. To permit the City to have
the flexibility to undertake interest

January 16, 2008
rate swap, swaption, rate cap, rate
collar and other hedging transactions from time to time, and to
establish the procedures for approving those transactions, this Council
authorizes the signing and delivery
of one or more agreements (each, a
“Hedge Agreement”) and any related agreements necessary for the
consummation of the transactions
contemplated by each Hedge Agreement. The authorizations in this Section are supplemental to and not in
derogation of any authority provided by any other ordinance of this
Council
concerning
hedging
arrangements, and are all subject to
the requirements and restrictions of
the Indenture.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is to the financial advantage of the City and in the City’s
best
interests
that
a
hedging
arrangement be undertaken by the
City with respect to any Bonds
issued or to be issued under the
Indenture, the Director of Finance
may authorize one or more interest
rate hedge transactions in accordance with the applicable Hedge
Agreement; provided that (a) the
counterparty shall be rated at the
time of signing the Hedge Agreement not lower than A+ or A1 by
at least one rating agency or its
obligations under the Hedge Agreement shall be guaranteed or insured
by an entity rated at the time of
signing the Hedge Agreement not
lower than A+ or A1 by at least one
rating agency, and (b) the term of
each hedge transaction shall not
exceed the final maturity of the
Bonds to which the hedge relates or
(in the case of an option) will
relate. The requirements of this
paragraph are in addition to, and
not in place or in derogation of, any
other applicable requirements of the
Indenture.
The Director of Finance shall
negotiate the terms of each Hedge
Agreement with a counterparty satisfying the credit criteria in this
Series 2008 Bond Legislation and
the Indenture. The City shall receive a written opinion of a Financial Advisor that the upfront payment or the periodic payments, as
the case may be, to be made by the
counterparty to the City, or by the
City to the counterparty, shall be
fair value for the Hedge Agreement, given the credit of the counterparty and the terms and conditions of the Hedge Agreement. The
Director of Finance shall determine
the terms and conditions of the
Hedge Agreement, including without limitation, the time or times
and procedures for the exercise by
the counterparty or the City, as the
case may be, of its option under the
Hedge
Agreement,
whether
the
obligations of the City under the
Hedge Agreement shall be secured
by a Credit Support Instrument, and
the rates to be paid by the counterparty to the City and by the City
to
the
counterparty
under
the
Hedge Agreement in the event of
the exercise of the option. The approval of each interest rate hedge
transaction
by
the
Director
of
Finance shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery
of the applicable Hedge Agreement
by the Director of Finance.

The City Record
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from the Net Revenues and the
Pledged Funds as permitted by the
Indenture, and may be payable also
from other funds permitted by law
to be used for the purpose, as identified by the Director of Finance in
the Hedge Agreement. Those payments may be secured by a pledge
of
the
Net
Revenues
and
the
Pledged Funds to the extent permitted by the Indenture, all as determined by the Director of Finance
and set forth in the Hedge Agreement. The obligation of the City to
make payments under any Hedge
Agreement does not and shall not
represent or constitute a general
obligation, debt, bonded indebtedness or a pledge of the faith and
credit of the City or the State of
Ohio. Nothing gives any party to
any Hedge Agreement the right to
have excises, ad valorem or other
taxes levied by the City or the State
of Ohio for the payment of any
amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.
Section 5.
Terms of Series 2008
Bonds. The Series 2008 Bonds shall
contain the terms provided in or
determined pursuant to, the Indenture, this Series 2008 Bond Legislation, the Series 2008 Certificate of
Award and the Eighth Supplemental
Indenture. Each series of Series 2008
Bonds may be secured by a separate
Supplemental Indenture, or a single
Supplemental Indenture may secure
more than one series of Series 2008
Bonds, and the authorization in this
Series 2008 Bond Legislation for the
Eighth
Supplemental
Indenture
shall encompass the authorization
for those one or more Supplemental
Indentures, regardless of their designation.
(a) General. In the event that
the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, determines that the City’s
best interests will be served by
causing a series of Series 2008
Bonds to be Variable Rate Bonds,
then the Director of Finance is
authorized to so specify in the
Series 2008 Certificate of Award. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the Series
2008 Bonds of that series shall be
determined
as
provided
in
the
Eighth
Supplemental
Indenture,
whether by auction, by reference to
a market index, by a remarketing
agent or otherwise, provided that no
series of variable rate Series 2008
Bonds shall bear interest at a rate
in excess of twenty-five percent
(25%) per year (including any
Series 2008 Bonds held by a provider
of a Credit Support Instrument). The
Director of Finance may determine
that the terms of a variable rate
series of Series 2008 Bonds may or
may not permit the holders to tender their variable rate Series 2008
Bonds for purchase by the City. If
the Director of Finance designates
any series of Series 2008 Bonds as
Variable Rate Bonds, and if the
Holders of that series of Series 2008
Bonds are to be entitled to tender
those Series 2008 Bonds for purchase, then the Director of Finance
shall also designate for those variable rate Series 2008 Bonds (and
may designate others, from time to

43

9
time, in substitution therefor) the
tender agent or agents and the
remarketing agent or agents, which
designations shall be based on the
determination of the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the parties so designated possess
the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required
of them and that the terms on which
the designated parties have agreed
to provide such services are fair and
commercially reasonable. The Director of Finance is authorized to enter
into agreements in connection with
the delivery of the Series 2008
Bonds, and from time to time thereafter so long as the Series 2008
Bonds
are
outstanding,
with
providers of Credit Support Instruments, tender agents (which may be
the Trustee), remarketing agents
(which may be any of the Original
Purchasers) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of
determining the variable interest
rates, permitting holders the right
of tender and providing for payment
of the purchase price of, or debt service on, the variable rate Series 2008
Bonds. In the event the variable rate
Series 2008 Bonds are issued as auction rate obligations, the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements, from time to time, with
auction agents and others, or to
cause the Trustee to enter into those
agreements, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor that
the parties so designated possess
the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required
of them and that the terms on which
the designated parties have agreed
to provide such services are fair and
commercially reasonable.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
any series of Series 2008 Bonds, and
regardless of whether that series of
Series 2008 Bonds bears interest at
variable or fixed rates, is authorized
to contract for a Credit Support
Instrument, and to pay the costs of
it from proceeds of the Series 2008
Bonds, if the Director determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the Credit
Support Instrument will result in a
savings in the cost of the financing
to the City.
In the event that the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, determines that the City’s best interests
will be served by causing a series
of Series 2008 Bonds to be Capital
Appreciation Bonds, then the Director of Finance is authorized to so
specify in the Series 2008 Certificate
of Award. If the Director of Finance
so determines, then the authorizations and limitations in this Section
5 and Section 6 shall be interpreted
and applied in a manner that the
Director of Finance determines to be
consistent with the character of Capital Appreciation Bonds.
(b) Form; Exchange and Transfer. All Series 2008 Bonds shall be
issued in fully registered form. The
Series 2008 Bonds initially shall be
delivered only in book-entry form,
shall be registered in the name of
the Depository or its nominee, as
registered owner, and immobilized
in the custody of the Depository,

10
and shall not be transferable or
exchangeable (except for transfer to
another Depository or its nominee)
without further action by the City
pursuant to the provisions of the
Eighth Supplemental Indenture. No
Series
2008
Bonds
shall
be
exchanged for or transferable into a
coupon Revenue Bond or Bonds
except to the extent that the Indenture permits such exchanges or
transfers.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Series 2008 Bonds of any
series for use in a book entry system, the Director of Finance and the
Trustee may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance and the Trustee do not or
are unable to do so, the Director of
Finance and the Trustee, after making provision for notification of the
beneficial
owners
by
the
then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit withdrawal of the Series 2008
Bonds of any series from the Depository, and authenticate and deliver
registered Bond certificates to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of action
or inaction of the City, of those persons requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into any agreements
determined by the Director to be
necessary in connection with the
book entry system for the Series
2008 Bonds, after determining that
those agreements will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
under the Indenture (as evidenced
by the Director’s signing of those
agreements).
(c)
Dates; Denominations. The
Series 2008 Bonds of each series
shall be dated as of the date or
dates provided in the Series 2008
Certificate of Award for that series.
The Series 2008 Bonds of each series
shall be issued in the denominations
permitted in the Eighth Supplemental Indenture.
(d) Interest and Place of Payment. The Series 2008 Bonds of each
series shall bear interest at their
respective interest rates specified in
the Series 2008 Certificate of Award
(or, in the case of variable rate
Series 2008 Bonds, determined pursuant to the Eighth Supplemental
Indenture) for that series. The
Series 2008 Bonds of each series
shall bear interest from the most
recent date to which interest has
been paid or duly provided for or, if
no interest has been paid or duly
provided for, from their date. The
principal and any redemption premium and the interest payable on
each series of Series 2008 Bonds
shall be payable at the times, to the
persons and in the manner set forth
in, or referenced by, the Supplemental Indenture, including, without
limitation, provisions thereof permitting special arrangements for
payments to the Depository.
(e)
Maturities. The Series 2008
Bonds of each series shall mature
on the Principal Retirement Dates
and in accordance with the Principal Retirement Schedule specified in
the Series 2008 Certificate of Award,
consistent with this Series 2008

The City Record
Bond Legislation and the Indenture
and subject to any provisions for
their optional or mandatory redemption specified in the Series 2008 Certificate of Award pursuant to this
Series 2008 Bond Legislation.
(f)
Optional and Mandatory Redemption. The Series 2008 Bonds of
each series may be subject to
redemption prior to maturity at the
option of the City, if and to the
extent so provided in the Series 2008
Certificate of Award for that series.
Any Series 2008 Bonds so determined
to be subject to optional redemption
and maturing by their stated terms
after the earliest optional redemption date shall be subject to redemption at the option of the City on or
after the earliest optional redemption date in whole or in part on any
date at the redemption prices provided in the Series 2008 Certificate
of Award and in accordance with
the Indenture. The Series 2008 Bonds
designated in the Series 2008 Certificate of Award as Term Bonds
subject to mandatory sinking fund
redemption shall be redeemed prior
to maturity on each Mandatory
Redemption Date designated in the
Series 2008 Certificate of Award in
the aggregate amount of the Mandatory Sinking Fund Installment to be
paid on such Mandatory Redemption
Date, all as provided in the Series
2008 Certificate of Award and in
accordance with the Indenture.
(g)
Signing. The Series 2008
Bonds shall be signed by the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, and
approved as to form by the Director
of Law. Any or all of the signatures
of those officials may be facsimiles.
The Series 2008 Bonds shall bear the
corporate seal of the City or a facsimile thereof.
(h)
Numbering. The Series 2008
Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director of Finance.
Section 6.
Award and Sale of
Series 2008 Bonds. The Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver a Series 2008 Certificate of
Award for the Series 2008 Bonds. In
the event the Series 2008 Bonds are
issued in more than one series sold
at different times, a separate Series
2008 Certificate of Award shall be
signed and delivered for each separately delivered series. Each series
of Series 2008 Bonds shall bear such
designation
as
the
Director
of
Finance determines to be appropriate (including, without limitation,
changing 2008 to the year in which
the series is issued). The sale of the
Series 2008 Bonds shall be awarded
to the firm or firms (collectively,
the “Original Purchaser”) identified
in the Series 2008 Certificate of
Award, following consultation with
the Director of Public Utilities and
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of firms that have proposed to underwrite the Series 2008
Bonds. Each Series 2008 Certificate
of Award shall determine the following, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, consistent
with this Series 2008 Bond Legislation and the Indenture:
(a)
the
aggregate
principal
amount of Series 2008 Bonds issued,
provided that such amount shall not
exceed $80,000,000 if the Series 2008
Bonds are to be initially offered to
the public at a price at least equal
to one hundred percent (100%) of
their aggregate principal amount,

44

January 16, 2008
but if any of the Series 2008 Bonds
are to be initially offered to the public at an original Issue discount
(any such original discount being
hereinafter referred to as an “Original Issue Discount”), then the maximum aggregate principal amount of
Series 2008 Bonds hereby authorized
shall be increased over $80,000,000
by an amount equal to the product
from multiplying the Original Issue
Discount at which any Series 2008
Bonds are to be initially offered to
the public by the aggregate principal amount of the Series 2008 Bonds
to be so offered;
(b) the Purchase Price to be paid
to the City by the Original Purchaser, which amount shall be not
less than: (i) 97% of the amount
determined by adding to the aggregate principal amount of the Series
2008 Bonds any aggregate original
issue premium and subtracting from
that amount any aggregate original
issue discount, plus (ii) any accrued
interest on the Series 2008 Bonds
from their date to the date of their
delivery to the Original Purchaser;
(c) whether any Series 2008 Bonds
are to be subject to optional redemption prior to maturity, and, if so, the
earliest optional redemption date for
those Series 2008 Bonds that are subject to prior redemption, which shall
be not later than ten years from the
first interest payment date of the
applicable series, and the applicable
Optional Redemption Price, which
shall be not greater than 102% of
the principal amount redeemed;
(d)
the
Principal
Retirement
Dates, the Term Maturity Dates (if
any), and the Mandatory Redemption Dates (if any) on which principal of the Series 2008 Bonds is to
be paid, which shall be not later
than thirty-one (31) years from their
respective dates of issuance;
(e) the Specified Interest Rates to
be borne by Series 2008 Bonds bearing interest at a fixed rate, the
weighted average of which shall not
exceed six percent (6%) as to Series
2008 Bonds of any series and the
method by which the interest rate is
to be determined for Series 2008
Bonds bearing interest at variable
rates, consistent with Section 6
(Series 2008 Bonds of the same
series and same maturity may bear
interest at different interest rates);
(f) the title and series designation
for the Series 2008 Bonds;
(g) the amount, if any, of proceeds of the sale of the Series 2008
Bonds to be deposited in the Bond
Service Reserve Fund in order to
cause the balance therein to equal
the Bond Reserve Requirement, if
and to the extent required by the
Eighth Supplemental Indenture, and
any determination as to whether
there shall be a special reserve fund
for the Series 2008 Bonds of any
series, separate from the common
Bond Service Reserve Fund, or a
Credit Facility from a Qualified
Credit Facility Provider or any
other instrument in lieu of a funded reserve fund, all as may be permitted by the Indenture;
(h) the Paying Agent; and
(i) whether any Series 2008 Bonds
are to be secured by or payable from
a Credit Support Instrument.
It is determined that the terms of
the Series 2008 Bonds as so determined and specified in the Series
2008 Certificate of Award within the

January 16, 2008
limitations set forth in this Series
2008 Bond Legislation and as permitted or required by the Indenture
will be in the best interest of the
City and consistent with all legal
requirements.
The Director of Finance may
enter into one or more Series 2008
Bond Purchase Agreements with the
Original Purchaser of Series 2008
Bonds setting forth the conditions
for delivery of the Series 2008 Bonds
that are consistent with this Series
2008 Bond Legislation, the Series
2008 Certificate of Award, and the
Indenture and that are determined
by the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to be customary for comparable revenue bonds issued by
governmental
entities,
including,
without limitation, representations
as to the accuracy and completeness
of information contained in the Official Statement of the City described
in Section 11.
Section 7. Allocation of Purchase
Price for the Series 2008 Bonds. The
net proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2008 Bonds (consisting of the
Purchase Price less bond insurance
premiums and other costs of Credit
Support
Instruments)
shall
be
received and receipted for by the
Director of Finance or by the
Trustee on the City’s behalf and
shall be allocated, deposited and
credited as follows, all pursuant to
and in accordance with the Indenture: (a) to the Interest Payment
Account in the Bond Service Fund,
that portion, if any, representing
accrued interest on the Series 2008
Bonds from their date to the date of
their delivery; (b) to the Bond Service Reserve Fund, the amount, if
any, necessary to cause the balance
therein to equal the Bond Reserve
Requirement; (c) to the Renewal
and Replacement Fund, the amount,
if any, necessary to cause the balance therein to equal the Renewal
and Replacement Fund Required
Balance; (d) to an account to be created under the Indenture for the
payment of costs of issuance, such
amounts as are needed to pay costs
of issuing the Series 2008 Bonds; (e)
to
the
counterparty
under
any
Hedge Agreement, any payment
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be paid from the proceeds of the Series 2008 Bonds; and
(f) to the Construction Fund, the
balance, for the payment of Capital
Costs The proceeds from the sale of
the Series 2008 Bonds are appropriated and shall be used for the purposes for which the Series 2008
Bonds are issued as provided in this
Series 2008 Bond Legislation.
Section 8.
Eighth Supplemental
Indenture. In order to secure the
payment of Bond Service Charges as
and when due and payable, the
Director of Finance and the Director of Public Utilities are hereby
authorized, in the name and on
behalf of the City, to make, execute,
acknowledge and deliver to the
Trustee, an Eighth Supplemental
Indenture, approved as to form and
correctness by the Director of Law,
not inconsistent with this Series
2008 Bond Legislation, the Series
2008 Certificate of Award and the
Indenture
and
not
substantially
adverse to the City as may be
approved by the officers executing
the same on behalf of the City. The

The City Record
determination by such officers that
the Eighth Supplemental Indenture
is not substantially adverse to the
City shall be conclusively evidenced
by the execution of the Eighth Supplemental Indenture by such officers. This Series 2008 Bond Legislation shall constitute a part of the
Eighth Supplemental Indenture as
therein provided and for all purposes thereof, including, without limitation, the application to this Series
2008 Bond Legislation of the provisions of the Eighth Supplemental
Indenture relating to amendment,
modification, supplementation and
severability.
Section 9.
Tax Covenants. With
respect to Series 2008 Bonds that are
to be issued and sold as obligations
bearing interest to be excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes (the “Tax-Exempt Bonds”),
the City covenants that it will use,
and will restrict the use and investment of, the proceeds of the TaxExempt Bonds in such manner and
to such extent as may be necessary
so that (a) the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds will be excluded
from
gross
income
for
federal
income tax purposes, and (b) in the
case of any Tax-Exempt Bonds qualifying as bonds, the interest on
which is not treated as an item of
tax preference under Section 57 of
the Code (“Non-AMT Bonds”), such
Tax-Exempt Bonds will be treated
as Non-AMT Bonds.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds to the governmental purposes
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield on investment property, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds and, as applicable, of
property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance, or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for issuance of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds, is hereby authorized (a) to make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice,
consent, approval, or waiver on behalf of the City with respect to the
Tax-Exempt Bonds as the City is
permitted or required to make or
give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the
Code or available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of
assuring, enhancing or protecting
the favorable tax treatment or status of the Tax-Exempt Bonds or
interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or expense of such compliance, reducing

45

11
the rebate amount or payments of
penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Tax-Exempt Bonds,
and (c) to give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for
inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Tax-Exempt Bonds,
setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the
amount and use of all the proceeds
of the Tax-Exempt Bonds, the facts,
circumstances
and
estimates
on
which they are based, and other
facts and circumstances relevant to
the tax treatment of the interest on
and the tax status of the TaxExempt Bonds.
Each covenant made in this Section 9 with respect to the TaxExempt Bonds is also made with
respect to all issues any portion of
the debt service on which is paid
from proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds (and, if different, the original
issue and any refunding issues in a
series of refundings), to the extent
such compliance is necessary to
assure exclusion of interest on the
Tax-Exempt
Bonds
from
gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified
above are authorized to take actions
with respect to those issues as they
are authorized in this Section to
take with respect to the TaxExempt Bonds.
Section 10. Additional Documents.
The Director of Finance, the Director of Public Utilities and other City
officials, as appropriate, are authorized to sign and deliver such
instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions
authorized by this Series 2008 Bond
Legislation, the Series 2008 Bond
Purchase Agreement, the Eighth
Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture, and any Hedge Agreements.
The Director of Finance, the
Director of Public Utilities, the
Director of Law and other City officials, as appropriate, are authorized
to make the necessary arrangements
on behalf of the City to establish the
date, location, procedure and conditions for the delivery of each series
of Series 2008 Bonds to the Original
Purchaser and to take all actions
necessary to effect due signing,
authentication and delivery of each
series of Series 2008 Bonds under
the terms of this Series 2008 Bond
Legislation, the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, the Series 2008 Bond
Purchase Agreement and the Indenture. The Clerk of Council or other
appropriate official of the City shall
furnish the Original Purchaser a
true transcript of proceedings certified by the Clerk or other official,
of all proceedings had with reference to the issuance of the Series
2008 Bonds along with such infor-

12
mation for the records as is necessary to determine the regularity and
validity of the issuance of the Series
2008 Bonds.
Section 11.
Official Statements;
Continuing Disclosure. The Director
of Finance, the Director of Public
Utilities and other City officials as
deemed appropriate, each are authorized, on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities, to (i) prepare or cause to be prepared, and
make or authorize modifications,
completions or changes of or supplements to, disclosure documents in
the form of a preliminary official
statement relating to the issuance of
the Series 2008 Bonds of one or more
series, and (ii) determine, and certify or otherwise represent, when
each preliminary official statement
as so prepared is a “deemed final”
official statement (except for permitted omissions) by the City as of
its date for purposes of Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
Rule 15c2-12(b)(1). The distribution
and use of one or more preliminary
official statements are hereby authorized and approved.
Those officers and each of them
are also authorized, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
to complete each preliminary official statement with such modifications, changes and supplements as
those
officers
shall
approve
or
authorize for the purpose of preparing and determining, and to certify
or otherwise represent, that the official statement as so revised is a
final official statement for purposes
of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b) (3) and (4).
Those officers each are further
authorized to use and distribute, or
authorize the use and distribution
of, one or more final official statements and supplements thereto in
connection with the original issuance of the Series 2008 Bonds as
may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Those officers
each are further authorized to sign
and deliver, on behalf of the City
and in their official capacities, each
final official statement and such
certificates in connection with the
accuracy of each preliminary official statement and each final official statement and any amendments
thereto as may, in their judgment,
also be necessary or appropriate.
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final official statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Series 2008 Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
an obligated person with respect to
the Series 2008 Bonds under, SEC
Rule 15c2-12, to provide or cause to
be provided such financial information and operating data and notices,
in such manner, as may be required
for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2-12. In
order to describe and specify certain
terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose,
and
thereby
to
implement
that
agreement, including provisions for
enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized to prepare, or cause to be
prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a continuing disclosure agreement

The City Record
or certificate, which shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Series 2008 Bonds in accordance
with SEC Rule 15c2-12. The performance of that agreement shall be
subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet
costs
the
City
would
be
required to incur to perform it.
Section 12.
Lien of Pledge. The
Net Revenues are subject to the lien
of the pledge under the Indenture
without any physical delivery of the
Net Revenues or further act, and the
lien of such pledge is valid and
binding against all parties having
claims of any kind against the City
(irrespective of whether such parties have notice of such pledge and
create a perfected security interest
for all purposes of Chapter 1309,
Ohio Revised Code) without the
necessity for separation of delivery
of the Net Revenues or for the filing or recording of the Indenture or
any other resolution or instrument
by which such pledge is created or
any certificate, statement or other
document
with
respect
to
such
pledge. The pledge of the Net Revenues under the Indenture shall be
effective and the money therefrom
and thereof may be applied to the
purposes for which pledged without
necessity for any further act of
appropriation.
Section 13.
Financial Advisors
and Consultants. The Director of
Finance may obtain the services of
one or more Financial Advisors,
from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any
of the determinations required by
this Series 2008 Bond Legislation to
be determined by the Director of
Finance or to negotiate any Hedge
Agreements.
The
Director
of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any Financial Advisor so
retained. The Director of Public Utilities and Director of Finance may
obtain the services of one or more
feasibility consultants, from time to
time, to provide reports in connection with the issuance and sale of
any Series 2008 Bonds or the delivery of any Hedge Agreements concerning the utilization and operation
of Cleveland Public Power, debt service coverage, rates and charges or
other matters. Any Financial Advisor or consultant employed under
the authority of this Series 2008
Bond Legislation shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the underwriters or counterparties and any other party interested in the transaction.
Section 14.
Appointment of Successor Trustee. The Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
appoint a successor Trustee on
behalf of the City in the event that
the current Trustee shall resign or
be removed, or be dissolved or otherwise become incapable of acting
as Trustee under the Indenture, or
in case it shall be taken under the
control of any public officer or officers or of a receiver appointed by a
court, in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.08 of the Original
Indenture.
Section 15.
Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of the Council concerning and relating to the
adoption of this Series 2008 Bond

46

January 16, 2008
Legislation were adopted in an open
meeting of the Council, and that all
deliberations of the Council and of
any of its committees that resulted
in such formal action were in meetings open to the public in compliance
with
all
applicable
legal
requirements.
Section 16. Separability. Each section of this Series 2008 Bond Legislation and each subdivision of any
section is declared to be independent, and the finding or holding of
any section or subdivision of any
section to be invalid or void shall
not be deemed or held to affect the
validity of any other section or subdivision of this Series 2008 Bond
Legislation.
Section 17.
Recitals. It is determined and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing of the Series 2008 Bonds in order
to make the same legal, valid and
binding special obligations issued
by the City of Cleveland, Ohio will
have happened, been done and performed or will happen, be done and
performed in regular and due form
as required by law; and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, is
applicable to the issuance of the
Series 2008 Bonds.
Section 18. Emergency. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all the members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise, it shall take effect and
be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 64-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds by the
City for the purpose of refunding a
portion of the city’s currently outstanding Public Power System revenue bonds to obtain debt service
savings or restructuring; authorizing hedge agreements; authorizing a
supplemental indenture and certain
other documents related thereto; and
authorizing and approving related
matters.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Ohio (the “City”), a municipal corporation and political subdivision in
and of the State of Ohio, is authorized and empowered pursuant to
Article XVIII of the Constitution of
the State of Ohio and the Charter of
the City, among other things: (a) to
own and operate the public utility
hereinafter defined and referred to
as “Cleveland Public Power”; (b) to
make, from time to time, such additions, extensions, improvements, replacements and alterations to Cleveland Public Power as it may deem
advisable; (c) to borrow money for
the purpose of providing funds for
such additions, extensions, improvements, replacements and alterations
and to refund obligations issued for
such purpose; (d) to issue its bonds
and notes in anticipation thereof, in
evidence of money borrowed for
such purpose in the manner and on
the terms set forth in the Indenture,

January 16, 2008
as hereinafter defined, and to issue
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds to
refund, in advance or otherwise,
such bonds or notes; and (e) to
secure any bonds, or notes issued in
anticipation thereof, by a pledge of
and lien on the Net Revenues, as
hereinafter defined, of Cleveland
Public Power; and
Whereas, by and pursuant to Ordinance No. 1516-91, duly passed on
July 24, 1991 (the “Original Bond
Legislation”), this Council authorized the issuance of Public Power
System Improvement First Mortgage
Revenue Bonds, dated September 1,
1991 in the aggregate principal
amount of $66,930,000 consisting of
Series 1991A Bonds in the aggregate
amount of $13,895,000 for the purposes of paying Capital Costs and
Series 1991B Bonds in the aggregate
amount of $53,035,000 for the purpose of refunding all of the outstanding revenue bonds that had
previously been issued for Cleveland
Public Power (collectively herein
the “Series 1991 Bonds”), all as defined in the Original Bond Legislation; and
Whereas, the Series 1991 Bonds
were issued under and secured on a
parity with any Additional Bonds by
a Trust Indenture, dated as of September 1, 1991 (the “Original Indenture”), between the City and Star
Bank, N.A., Cincinnati, Ohio, as
Trustee, now known as U.S. Bank
National Association (the “Trustee”);
and
Whereas, the Original Bond Legislation provides, in Section 12 thereof, that the City may issue Additional Bonds on a parity with the
Series 1991 Bonds for certain purposes including the payment of Capital Costs and the refunding of
obligations issued for that purpose;
and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1133-93, duly passed on June 7,
1993, this Council authorized the
issuance of Additional Bonds, entitled Public Power System First
Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Series
1994A (the “Series 1994A Bonds”), in
the aggregate principal amount of
$179,775,000, for the purpose of providing funds for Capital Costs and
to refund notes issued for such purpose; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 55-94, duly passed on June 6,
1994, this Council authorized the
issuance of Additional Bonds, entitled Public Power System First
Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Series
1994B (the “Series 1994B Bonds”) in
the aggregate principal amount of
$39,330,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the payment of a
judgment involving the City and
Cleveland Public Power and to
refund notes issued for such purposes (the Series 1994A Bonds and
the Series 1994B Bonds are hereinafter collectively referred to as
the “Series 1994 Bonds”); and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1003-95, duly passed on June 19,
1995, this Council authorized the
issuance of Additional Bonds entitled Public Power System First
Mortgage Revenue Bonds, Series
1996, Sub-Series 1 (the “Series 1996
Bonds”) in the aggregate principal
amount of $123,720,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the

The City Record
refunding of a portion of the Series
1994A Bonds; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 816-98, duly passed on June 8,
1998, this Council authorized the
issuance of Additional Bonds entitled Public Power System Revenue
Bonds, Series 1998 (the “Series 1998
Bonds”) in the aggregate principal
amount of $44,840,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the
refunding of a portion of the Series
1991 Bonds and a portion of the
Series 1994A Bonds; and
Whereas, further pursuant to Ordinance No. 816-98, this Council authorized the issuance of Additional
Bonds entitled Public Power System
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
2001 (the “Series 2001 Bonds”) in the
aggregate
principal
amount
of
$41,925,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the current refunding of a portion of the Series 1991
Bonds; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 290-06, duly passed on March 20,
2006, this Council authorized the
issuance of Additional Bonds entitled Public Power System Refunding
Revenue Bonds, Series 2006A-1 (the
“Series 2006A-1 Bonds”) in the aggregate principal amount of $95,265,000,
for the purpose of providing funds
for the current refunding of a portion of the Series 1996 Bonds; and
Whereas, further pursuant to Ordinance No. 290-06, this Council authorized the issuance of Additional
Bonds entitled Public Power System
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
2006A-2 (the “Series 2006A-2 Bonds”)
in the aggregate principal amount
of $12,295,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the advance refunding of a portion of the Series 1994A
Bonds; and
Whereas, further pursuant to Ordinance No. 290-06, this Council authorized the issuance of Additional
Bonds entitled Public Power System
Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series
2006B (the “Series 2006B Bonds”) in
the aggregate principal amount of
$20,325,000, for the purpose of providing funds for the current refunding of a portion of the Series 1996
Bonds (the Series 2006A-1 Bonds, the
Series 2006A-2 Bonds and the Series
2006B Bonds are hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Series 2006
Bonds”); and
Whereas, further pursuant to Ordinance No. 290-06, the City entered
into the Amended and Restated
Trust Indenture (Sixth Supplemental Indenture), dated as of August
17, 2006, amending, supplementing,
restating and superseding the Original Indenture as previously amended and supplemented; and
Whereas, this Council has determined that the City may achieve
further reductions in the Bond Service Charges by refunding certain
Outstanding
Bonds
through
the
issuance and sale of Additional
Bonds
(“Series
2008
Refunding
Bonds”) and may achieve other benefits through restructuring other
Outstanding Bonds in connection
with the issuance of Bonds authorized under a separate Ordinance as
“Series 2008 Bonds”; and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the City to enter
into interest rate swap, swaption
and other hedging arrangements

47

13
with respect to the Outstanding
Bonds and the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds in order to obtain reductions in Bond Service Charges as
provided in this Ordinance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that authorizing the
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds to
refund Outstanding Bonds is necessary to enable Cleveland Public
Power to take advantage of favorable market conditions on a timely
basis to obtain debt service savings
or restructuring; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms defined in
the Amended and Restated Indenture as previously amended and supplemented, which shall have the
same meaning herein as therein
unless otherwise defined herein or
unless the context or use otherwise
indicates, the following words and
terms as used in this Ordinance, the
Indenture and the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds (each as hereinafter
defined) shall have the following
meanings unless the context or use
otherwise indicates. Words importing
the
singular
number
shall
include the plural number, and vice
versa, and the terms “hereof,” “herein,” “hereby,” “hereto,” and “hereunder” and similar terms refer to this
Series 2008 Refunding Bond Legislation and the Indenture, unless the
context otherwise indicates. The use
of 2008 in the definition of the
Bonds, Bond Legislation, Certificate
of Award and other defined terms
shall not be construed to require the
issuance of the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds of any series in calendar
year 2008. The Director of Finance
shall replace 2008 with the calendar
year in which the bonds are actually issued and may make further designations in nomenclature as may
be appropriate.
“Amended and Restated Indenture” means the Amended and Restated Trust Indenture (Sixth Supplemental Indenture), dated as of
August 17, 2006, between the City
and the Trustee, supplementing,
amending, restating and superseding the Original Indenture as previously amended and supplemented,
as the same has been and may further be duly supplemented, amended
or modified from time to time in
accordance
with
the
provisions
thereof.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance the security or liquidity of
any Series 2008 Refunding Bonds or
any Hedge Agreements in accordance with the Indenture.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance
of the City, from time to time, in
connection with the Series 2008
Refunding Bonds or any Hedge
Agreement.
“Hedge Agreement” has the meaning given in Section 4 of this Series
2008 Refunding Bond Legislation.

14
“Indenture” means the Amended
and Restated Indenture as amended
and supplemented by the Seventh
Supplemental Indenture, the Eighth
Supplemental Indenture, and the
Ninth Supplemental Indenture, as
the same may be further supplemented, amended or modified from
time to time in accordance with the
provisions thereof.
“Ninth
Supplemental
Indenture”
means the Ninth Supplemental Indenture (which may consist of more
than one Supplemental Indenture
with appropriate distinguishing designations if the Series 2008 Bonds
are issued in more than one series),
provided for in Section 8 hereof
between the City and the Trustee,
including this Series 2008 Refunding
Bond Legislation as part thereof, as
the same may be duly supplemented, amended or modified from time
to time in accordance with the provisions hereof.
“Refunded Bonds” means those
Outstanding Bonds designated in
the Series 2008 Refunding Certificate of Award to be refunded from
proceeds of the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds.
“Series 2008 Refunding Bond Legislation” means this Ordinance, constituting part of the Ninth Supplemental Indenture.
“Series 2008 Refunding Bond Purchase Agreement” means one or
more Bond Purchase Agreements
between the City and the Original
Purchaser of the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds, authorized in Section 6 hereof.
“Series 2008 Refunding Certificate
of Award” means the one or more
certificates authorized pursuant to
Section 6 hereof.
“Series 2008 Escrow Agent” means
the Trustee, acting as escrow agent
under the Series 2008 Escrow Agreement with respect to the Refunded
Bonds.
“Series 2008 Escrow Agreement”
means the escrow agreement (which
may consist of multiple escrow
agreements with appropriate distinguishing definitions if the Series
2008 Refunding Bonds are issued in
more than one series) between the
City and the Series 2008 Escrow
Agent authorized pursuant to Section 7 hereof.
“Series 2008 Escrow Fund” means
the escrow fund established in the
Series 2008 Escrow Agreement.
“Series 2008 Refunding Bonds”
means the City’s Public Power System
Refunding
Revenue
Bonds
Series 2008 authorized pursuant to
Section 3 hereof.
Section 2. Authority. This Series
2008 Refunding Bond Legislation is
adopted pursuant to Sections 3, 4
and 12 of Article XVIII of the Constitution of the State, and the City’s
Charter.
Section 3. Authorization of Series
2008 Refunding Bonds. This Council
finds and determines it is necessary
and proper and in the best interest
of the City to authorize the issuance
of the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds
for the purpose of refunding one or
more series of the Outstanding
Bonds,
or
designated
maturities
thereof, either (i) to obtain aggregate net present value debt service
savings of not less than three percent (3%), or (ii) for the purpose of

The City Record
restructuring the debt service on
Outstanding Bonds in connection
with the issuance of Bonds authorized under a separate Ordinance as
“Series 2008 Bonds” in a manner that
the Director of Finance determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, to serve the
City’s best interests. The Series 2008
Refunding Bonds may be issued in
one or more separate series so long
as the aggregate net present value
savings achieved by the one or more
series
issued
for
the
purpose
described in clause (i) of the preceding sentence shall be not less
than three percent (3%), and so
long as the one or more series
issued for the purpose described in
clause (ii) of the preceding sentence
in the aggregate meet the requirements of that clause (ii). The principal amount of each series of Series
2008 Refunding Bonds is to be the
amount set forth in the Series 2008
Refunding
Certificate
of
Award
authorized in Section 6 and shall be
the amount determined by the Director of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be
necessary (i) to refund the Refunded Bonds, (ii) to fund any deposit
to the Bond Service Reserve Fund
or the Renewal and Replacement
Fund required under the Indenture,
(iv) to pay costs of any Credit Support Instruments, (v) to pay identified amounts owed under any Hedge
Agreements, and (vi) to pay costs
of issuing the Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds and refunding the Refunded
Bonds. The proceeds from the sale
of each series of Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds
shall
be
allocated,
deposited and applied as provided in
Section 7 of this Ordinance.
The Series 2008 Refunding Bonds
may be issued in one or more separate series, each bearing a distinctive designation, provided that the
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds of each
series satisfy the requirements of
this Series 2008 Refunding Bond
Legislation and the Indenture. Separate series of Series 2008 Refunding Bonds may be issued at the
same or different times. The Series
2008 Refunding Bonds of each series
shall be designated as provided in
the applicable Certificate of Award
(including replacing references to
2008 to the calendar year in which
the obligations are issued). A separate Certificate of Award and a separate Supplemental Indenture may
be delivered for each series. Costs
of issuance of the Series 2008
Refunding Bonds and any required
deposit to the Bond Service Reserve
Fund attributable to the Series 2008
Refunding Bonds shall, in each case,
be included in the costs funded from
the proceeds of the Series 2008
Refunding Bonds. The Series 2008
Refunding Bonds shall constitute
Bonds for all purposes of the Indenture.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Series 2008
Refunding Bonds to obtain debt service savings with respect to Outstanding Bonds serves a proper, public, municipal purpose by reducing
the cost at which Cleveland Public
Power can provide electric power.
Section 4. Authorization of Hedging
Arrangements.
This
Council
finds that by engaging in interest

48

January 16, 2008
rate hedging arrangements from
time to time, the City may reduce
its cost of borrowing by optimizing
the relative amounts of fixed and
variable rate obligations and minimizing the risk of variations in its
debt service costs. Certain types of
hedging arrangements (referred to
in this Series 2008 Refunding Bond
Legislation as “swaptions”) may
enable the City to obtain savings
prior to the issuance of Series 2008
Refunding Bonds by providing for
an upfront payment to the City by
a financial institution or other organization that is the counterparty to
the hedge arrangement in consideration of the City’s giving the counterparty the option to make effective at a future date an interest rate
exchange transaction with the City.
To permit the City to have the flexibility to undertake interest rate
swap, swaption, rate cap, rate collar
and other hedging transactions from
time to time, and to establish the
procedures
for
approving
those
transactions, this Council authorizes
the signing and delivery of one or
more agreements (each, a “Hedge
Agreement”) and any related agreements necessary for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by each Hedge Agreement. The
authorizations in this Section are
supplemental to and not in derogation of any authority provided by
any other ordinance of this Council
concerning
hedging
arrangements,
and are all subject to the requirements and restrictions of the Indenture.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is to the financial advantage of the City and in the City’s
best
interests
that
a
hedging
arrangement be undertaken by the
City with respect to any Bonds
issued or to be issued under the
Indenture, the Director of Finance
may authorize one or more interest
rate hedge transactions in accordance with the applicable Hedge
Agreement; provided that (a) the
counterparty shall be rated at the
time of signing the Hedge Agreement not lower than A+ or A1 by
at least one rating agency or its
obligations under the Hedge Agreement shall be guaranteed or insured
by an entity rated at the time of
signing the Hedge Agreement not
lower than A+ or A1 by at least one
rating agency, and (b) the term of
each hedge transaction shall not
exceed the final maturity of the
Bonds to which the hedge relates or
(in the case of an option) will
relate. The requirements of this
paragraph are in addition to, and
not in place or in derogation of, any
other applicable requirements of the
Indenture.
The Director of Finance shall
negotiate the terms of each Hedge
Agreement with a counterparty satisfying the credit criteria in this
Series 2008 Refunding Bond Legislation and the Indenture. The City
shall receive a written opinion of a
Financial Advisor that the upfront
payment or the periodic payments,
as the case may be, to be made by
the counterparty to the City, or by
the City to the counterparty, shall
be fair value for the Hedge Agree-

January 16, 2008
ment, given the credit of the counterparty and the terms and conditions of the Hedge Agreement. The
Director of Finance shall determine
the terms and conditions of the
Hedge Agreement, including without limitation, the time or times and
procedures for the exercise by the
counterparty or the City, as the case
may be, of its option under the
Hedge
Agreement,
whether
the
obligations of the City under the
Hedge Agreement shall be secured
by a Credit Support Instrument, and
the rates to be paid by the counterparty to the City and by the City to
the counterparty under the Hedge
Agreement in the event of the exercise of the option. The approval of
each interest rate hedge transaction
by the Director of Finance shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery of the applicable
Hedge Agreement by the Director of
Finance.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from the Net Revenues and the
Pledged Funds as permitted by the
Indenture, and may be payable also
from other funds permitted by law
to be used for the purpose, as identified by the Director of Finance in
the Hedge Agreement. Those payments may be secured by a pledge
of
the
Net
Revenues
and
the
Pledged Funds to the extent permitted by the Indenture, all as determined by the Director of Finance
and set forth in the Hedge Agreement. The obligation of the City to
make payments under any Hedge
Agreement does not and shall not
represent or constitute a general
obligation, debt, bonded indebtedness or a pledge of the faith and
credit of the City or the State of
Ohio. Nothing gives any party to
any Hedge Agreement the right to
have excises, ad valorem or other
taxes levied by the City or the State
of Ohio for the payment of any
amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.
Section 5.
Terms of Series 2008
Refunding Bonds. The Series 2008
Refunding Bonds shall contain the
terms provided in or determined pursuant to, the Indenture, this Series
2008 Refunding Bond Legislation,
the Series 2008 Refunding Certificate of Award and the Ninth Supplemental Indenture. Each series of
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds may be
secured by a separate Supplemental
Indenture, or a single Supplemental
Indenture may secure more than one
series of Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds, and the authorization in this
Series 2008 Refunding Bond Legislation for the Ninth Supplemental
Indenture
shall
encompass
the
authorization for those one or more
Supplemental Indentures, regardless
of their designation.
(a) General. In the event that the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, determines that the City’s best
interests will be served by causing
a series of Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds to be Variable Rate Bonds,
then the Director of Finance is
authorized to so specify in the
Series 2008 Refunding Certificate of
Award. If the Director of Finance so
determines, then the method and
procedure by which the variable

The City Record
rate of interest to be borne by the
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds of that
series shall be determined as provided in the Ninth Supplemental
Indenture, whether by auction, by
reference to a market index, by a
remarketing agent or otherwise, provided that no series of variable rate
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds shall
bear interest at a rate in excess of
twenty-five percent (25%) per year
(including any Series 2008 Refunding Bonds held by a provider of a
Credit Support Instrument). The
Director of Finance may determine
that the terms of a variable rate
series of Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds may or may not permit the
holders to tender their variable rate
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds for
purchase by the City. If the Director of Finance designates any series
of Series 2008 Refunding Bonds as
Variable Rate Bonds, and if the
Holders of that series of Series 2008
Refunding Bonds are to be entitled
to tender those Series 2008 Refunding Bonds for purchase, then the
Director of Finance shall also designate for those variable rate Series
2008 Refunding Bonds (and may
designate others, from time to time,
in substitution therefor) the tender
agent or agents and the remarketing agent or agents, which designations shall be based on the determination of the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the parties
so designated possess the requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds, and from time to
time thereafter so long as the Series
2008 Refunding Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit Support
Instruments, tender agents (which
may be the Trustee), remarketing
agents (which may be any of the
Original Purchasers) and others as
may be determined by the Director
of Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of
determining the variable interest
rates, permitting holders the right
of tender and providing for payment
of the purchase price of, or debt service on, the variable rate Series 2008
Refunding Bonds. In the event the
variable rate Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds are issued as auction rate
obligations, the Director of Finance
is authorized to enter into agreements, from time to time, with auction agents and others, or to cause
the Trustee to enter into those
agreements, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor that
the parties so designated possess
the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required
of them and that the terms on which
the designated parties have agreed
to provide such services are fair and
commercially reasonable.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
any series of Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds, and regardless of whether
that series of Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds bears interest at variable or

49

15
fixed rates, is authorized to contract
for a Credit Support Instrument, and
to pay the costs of it from proceeds
of the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds,
if the Director determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that the Credit Support
Instrument will result in a savings
in the cost of the financing to the
City.
In the event that the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, determines that the City’s best interests
will be served by causing a series
of Series 2008 Refunding Bonds to
be Capital Appreciation Bonds, then
the Director of Finance is authorized to so specify in the Series 2008
Refunding Certificate of Award. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the authorizations and
limitations in this Section 5 and Section 6 shall be interpreted and
applied in a manner that the Director of Finance determines to be consistent with the character of Capital
Appreciation Bonds.
(b) Form; Exchange and Transfer. All Series 2008 Refunding Bonds
shall be issued in fully registered
form. The Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds initially shall be delivered
only in book-entry form, shall be
registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered
owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository, and shall not
be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another
Depository or its nominee) without
further action by the City pursuant
to the provisions of the Ninth Supplemental Indenture. No Series 2008
Refunding
Bonds
shall
be
exchanged for or transferable into a
coupon Revenue Bond or Bonds
except to the extent that the Indenture permits such exchanges or
transfers.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds
of any series for use in a book entry
system, the Director of Finance and
the Trustee may attempt to establish a securities depository/book
entry
relationship
with
another
qualified Depository. If the Director
of Finance and the Trustee do not
or are unable to do so, the Director
of Finance and the Trustee, after
making provision for notification of
the beneficial owners by the then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit withdrawal of the Series 2008
Refunding Bonds of any series from
the Depository, and authenticate
and deliver registered Bond certificates to the assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost
and expense (including any costs of
printing), if the event is not the
result of action or inaction of the
City, of those persons requesting
such issuance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into any agreements
determined by the Director to be
necessary in connection with the
book entry system for the Series
2008 Refunding Bonds, after determining that those agreements will
not endanger the funds or securities
of the City under the Indenture (as
evidenced by the Director’s signing
of those agreements).

16
(c)
Dates; Denominations. The
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds of each
series shall be dated as of the date
or dates provided in the Series 2008
Refunding Certificate of Award for
that series. The Series 2008 Refunding Bonds of each series shall be
issued in the denominations permitted in the Ninth Supplemental Indenture.
(d)
Interest and Place of Payment. The Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds of each series shall bear
interest at their respective interest
rates specified in the Series 2008
Refunding Certificate of Award (or,
in the case of variable rate Series
2008 Refunding Bonds, determined
pursuant to the Ninth Supplemental
Indenture) for that series. The
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds of each
series shall bear interest from the
most recent date to which interest
has been paid or duly provided for
or, if no interest has been paid or
duly provided for, from their date.
The principal and any redemption
premium and the interest payable on
each series of Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds shall be payable at the times,
to the persons and in the manner set
forth in, or referenced by, the Supplemental
Indenture,
including,
without limitation, provisions thereof permitting special arrangements
for payments to the Depository.
(e)
Maturities. The Series 2008
Refunding Bonds of each series
shall mature on the Principal Retirement Dates and in accordance with
the Principal Retirement Schedule
specified in the Series 2008 Refunding Certificate of Award, consistent
with this Series 2008 Refunding
Bond Legislation and the Indenture
and subject to any provisions for
their optional or mandatory redemption specified in the Series 2008
Refunding Certificate of Award pursuant to this Series 2008 Refunding
Bond Legislation.
(f)
Optional and Mandatory Redemption. The Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds of each series may be subject
to redemption prior to maturity at
the option of the City, if and to the
extent so provided in the Series 2008
Refunding Certificate of Award for
that series. Any Series 2008 Refunding Bonds so determined to be subject to optional redemption and
maturing by their stated terms after
the earliest optional redemption date
shall be subject to redemption at the
option of the City on or after the earliest optional redemption date in
whole or in part on any date at the
redemption prices provided in the
Series 2008 Refunding Certificate of
Award and in accordance with the
Indenture. The Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds designated in the Series 2008
Certificate of Award as Term Bonds
subject to mandatory sinking fund
redemption shall be redeemed prior
to maturity on each Mandatory
Redemption Date designated in the
Series 2008 Refunding Certificate of
Award in the aggregate amount of
the Mandatory Sinking Fund Installment to be paid on such Mandatory
Redemption Date, all as provided in
the Series 2008 Refunding Certificate
of Award and in accordance with the
Indenture.
(g) Signing. The Series 2008 Refunding Bonds shall be signed by
the Mayor and the Director of

The City Record
Finance, and approved as to form by
the Director of Law. Any or all of
the signatures of those officials may
be
facsimiles.
The
Series
2008
Refunding Bonds shall bear the corporate seal of the City or a facsimile thereof.
(h)
Numbering. The Series 2008
Refunding Bonds shall be numbered
as determined by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6.
Award and Sale of
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
sign and deliver a Series 2008
Refunding Certificate of Award for
the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds. In
the event the Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds are issued in more than one
series sold at different times, a separate Series 2008 Refunding Certificate of Award shall be signed and
delivered for each separately delivered series. Each series of Series
2008 Refunding Bonds shall bear
such designation as the Director of
Finance determines to be appropriate (including, without limitation,
changing 2008 to the year in which
the series is issued). The sale of the
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds shall
be awarded to the firm or firms (collectively, the “Original Purchaser”)
identified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award, following consultation with
the Director of Public Utilities and
based on an evaluation of the qualifications of firms that have proposed to underwrite the Series 2008
Refunding Bonds. Each Series 2008
Refunding
Certificate
of
Award
shall determine the following, based
on the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, consistent with this Series
2008 Refunding Bond Legislation
and the Indenture:
(a)
the
aggregate
principal
amount of Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds issued;
(b) the Purchase Price to be paid
to the City by the Original Purchaser, which amount shall be not
less than: (i) 97% of the amount
determined by adding to the aggregate principal amount of the Series
2008 Refunding Bonds any aggregate original issue premium and
subtracting from that amount any
aggregate original issue discount,
plus (ii) any accrued interest on the
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds from
their date to the date of their delivery to the Original Purchaser;
(c)
whether
any
Series
2008
Refunding Bonds are to be subject
to optional redemption prior to
maturity, and, if so, the earliest
optional redemption date for those
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds that
are subject to prior redemption,
which shall be not later than ten
years from the first interest payment date of the applicable series,
and the applicable Optional Redemption Price, which shall be not
greater than 102% of the principal
amount redeemed;
(d)
the
Principal
Retirement
Dates, the Term Maturity Dates (if
any), and the Mandatory Redemption Dates (if any) on which principal of the Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds is to be paid, which shall be
not later than thirty-one (31) years
from
their
respective
dates
of
issuance;
(e) the Specified Interest Rates to
be borne by Series 2008 Refunding

50

January 16, 2008
Bonds bearing interest at a fixed
rate, the weighted average of which
shall not exceed six percent (6%) as
to Series 2008 Refunding Bonds of
any series and the method by which
the interest rate is to be determined
for Series 2008 Refunding Bonds
bearing interest at variable rates,
consistent with Section 6 (Series
2008 Refunding Bonds of the same
series and same maturity may bear
interest at different interest rates);
(f) the particular Outstanding
Bonds or portions thereof to be
Refunded Bonds;
(g) the title and series designation for the Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds;
(h) the amount, if any, of proceeds of the sale of the Series 2008
Refunding Bonds to be deposited in
the Bond Service Reserve Fund in
order to cause the balance therein
to equal the Bond Reserve Requirement, if and to the extent required
by the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, and any determination as to
whether there shall be a special
reserve fund for the Series 2008
Refunding Bonds of any series, separate from the common Bond Service
Reserve Fund, or a Credit Facility
from a Qualified Credit Facility
Provider, or any other instrument in
lieu of a funded reserve fund, all as
may be permitted by the Indenture;
(i) the Paying Agent; and
(j)
whether
any
Series
2008
Refunding Bonds are to be secured
by or payable from a Credit Support
Instrument.
It is determined that the terms of
the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds as
so determined and specified in the
Series 2008 Refunding Certificate of
Award within the limitations set
forth in this Series 2008 Refunding
Bond Legislation and as permitted
or required by the Indenture will be
in the best interest of the City and
consistent with all legal requirements.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into one or more
Series 2008 Refunding Bond Purchase Agreements with the Original
Purchaser of Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds setting forth the conditions
for delivery of the Series 2008
Refunding Bonds that are consistent
with this Series 2008 Refunding
Bond Legislation, the Series 2008
Refunding Certificate of Award, and
the Indenture and that are determined by the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, to be customary
for
comparable
revenue
bonds
issued by governmental entities,
including, without limitation, representations as to the accuracy and
completeness of information contained in the Official Statement of
the City described in Section 11.
Section 7. Allocation of Purchase
Price for the Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds;
Refunding
of
Refunded
Bonds; Escrow Agreements. The net
proceeds from the sale of the Series
2008 Refunding Bonds (consisting of
the Purchase Price less bond insurance premiums and other costs of
Credit Support Instruments) shall be
received and receipted for by the
Director of Finance or by the
Trustee on the City’s behalf and
shall be allocated, deposited and
credited as follows, all pursuant to

January 16, 2008
and in accordance with the Indenture: (a) to the Interest Payment
Account in the Bond Service Fund,
that portion, if any, representing
accrued interest on the Series 2008
Refunding Bonds from their date to
the date of their delivery; (b) to the
Bond Service Reserve Fund, the
amount, if any, necessary to cause
the balance therein to equal the
Bond Reserve Requirement; (c) to
the Renewal and Replacement Fund,
the amount, if any, necessary to
cause the balance therein to equal
the Renewal and Replacement Fund
Required Balance; (d) to the Series
2008 Escrow Fund, the amount necessary to provide for the defeasance
of the Refunded Bonds; (e) to the
counterparty
under
any
Hedge
Agreement, any payment determined
by the Director of Finance to be
paid from the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds, including any termination payment in the event that
the Director of Finance determines
it is in the best interests of the City
to terminate a Hedge Agreement
relating to Outstanding Bonds; and
(f) to an account to be created
under the Indenture for the payment
of costs of issuance, such amounts
as are needed to pay costs of issuing the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds
and refunding the Refunded Bonds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Series 2008 Refunding Bonds are
appropriated and shall be used for
the purposes for which the Series
2008 Refunding Bonds are issued as
provided in this Series 2008 Refunding Bond Legislation.
The Director of Finance is authorized to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, a
Series 2008 Escrow Agreement between the City and the Trustee, as
Series 2008 Escrow Agent, providing
for, among other matters: the investment and holding in escrow of
the proceeds of the Series 2008
Refunding Bonds to be applied to
the
refunding
of
the
Refunded
Bonds; the application of the moneys derived from those investments
to the payment of the Bond Service
Charges on those Refunded Bonds;
and the irrevocable call for redemption of the Refunded Bonds to be
called for redemption prior to maturity. The Director of Finance shall
provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the Series 2008 Escrow Agreement
from proceeds of the Series 2008
Refunding Bonds to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose. Provision shall be
made in the Series 2008 Escrow
Agreement to give the Trustee any
written notice of redemption required under Article III of the Original Indenture. The Director of
Finance, the Director of Public Utilities and other appropriate City officials shall sign all documents and
take all other actions necessary or
appropriate on the part of the City
to effect such refunding in accordance with the Indenture and to
cause the Refunded Bonds to be
deemed paid and discharged, including without limitation, the retention
of an independent firm of accountants to verify the mathematical

The City Record
accuracy of the calculations relating
to the escrow.
Section 8.
Ninth Supplemental
Indenture. In order to secure the
payment of Bond Service Charges as
and when due and payable, the
Director of Finance and the Director of Public Utilities are hereby
authorized, in the name and on
behalf of the City, to make, execute,
acknowledge and deliver to the
Trustee, a Ninth Supplemental Indenture, approved as to form and
correctness by the Director of Law,
not inconsistent with this Series
2008 Refunding Bond Legislation,
the Series 2008 Refunding Certificate of Award and the Indenture
and not substantially adverse to the
City as may be approved by the officers executing the same on behalf
of the City. The determination by
such officers that the Ninth Supplemental Indenture is not substantially adverse to the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution
of the Ninth Supplemental Indenture
by such officers. This Series 2008
Refunding Bond Legislation shall
constitute a part of the Ninth Supplemental Indenture as therein provided and for all purposes thereof,
including, without limitation, the
application
to
this
Series
2008
Refunding Bond Legislation of the
provisions of the Ninth Supplemental Indenture relating to amendment, modification, supplementation
and severability.
Section 9.
Tax Covenants. With
respect to Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds that are to be issued and sold
as obligations bearing interest to be
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes (the “TaxExempt Bonds”), the City covenants
that it will use, and will restrict the
use and investment of, the proceeds
of the Tax-Exempt Bonds in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the interest on the Tax-Exempt Bonds will
be excluded from gross income for
federal income tax purposes, and
(b) in the case of any Tax-Exempt
Bonds qualifying as bonds, the interest on which is not treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code (“Non-AMT Bonds”),
such Tax-Exempt Bonds will be
treated as Non-AMT Bonds.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds to the governmental purposes
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield on investment property, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds and, as applicable, of
property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.

51

17
The Director of Finance, or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for issuance of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds, is hereby authorized (a) to make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice,
consent, approval, or waiver on
behalf of the City with respect to
the Tax-Exempt Bonds as the City
is permitted or required to make or
give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the
Code or available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of
assuring, enhancing or protecting
the favorable tax treatment or status of the Tax-Exempt Bonds or
interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose,
reducing
the
burden
or
expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or payments
of penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Tax-Exempt Bonds,
and (c) to give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for
inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Tax-Exempt Bonds,
setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the
amount and use of all the proceeds
of the Tax-Exempt Bonds, the facts,
circumstances
and
estimates
on
which they are based, and other
facts and circumstances relevant to
the tax treatment of the interest on
and the tax status of the TaxExempt Bonds.
Each covenant made in this Section 9 with respect to the TaxExempt Bonds is also made with
respect to all issues any portion of
the debt service on which is paid
from proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds (and, if different, the original
issue and any refunding issues in a
series of refundings), to the extent
such compliance is necessary to
assure exclusion of interest on the
Tax-Exempt
Bonds
from
gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and the officers identified
above are authorized to take actions
with respect to those issues as they
are authorized in this Section to
take with respect to the TaxExempt Bonds.
Section 10. Additional Documents.
The Director of Finance, the Director of Public Utilities and other City
officials, as appropriate, are authorized to sign and deliver such
instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by this Series
2008 Refunding Bond Legislation,
the Series 2008 Refunding Bond Purchase Agreement, the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture, the
Series 2008 Escrow Agreement and
any Hedge Agreements.

18
The Director of Finance, the
Director of Public Utilities, the
Director of Law and other City officials, as appropriate, are authorized
to make the necessary arrangements
on behalf of the City to establish the
date, location, procedure and conditions for the delivery of each series
of Series 2008 Refunding Bonds to
the Original Purchaser and to take
all actions necessary to effect due
signing, authentication and delivery
of each series of Series 2008 Refunding Bonds under the terms of this
Series 2008 Refunding Bond Legislation,
the
Ninth
Supplemental
Indenture, the Series 2008 Refunding
Bond Purchase Agreement and the
Indenture. The Clerk of Council or
other appropriate official of the City
shall furnish the Original Purchaser
a true transcript of proceedings certified by the Clerk or other official,
of all proceedings had with reference to the issuance of the Series
2008 Refunding Bonds along with
such information for the records as
is necessary to determine the regularity and validity of the issuance
of the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds.
Section 11.
Official Statements;
Continuing Disclosure. The Director
of Finance, the Director of Public
Utilities and other City officials as
deemed appropriate, are each authorized, on behalf of the City and in
their official capacities, to (i) prepare or cause to be prepared, and
make or authorize modifications,
completions or changes of or supplements to, disclosure documents in
the form of a preliminary official
statement relating to the issuance of
the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds of
one or more series, and (ii) determine, and certify or otherwise represent, when each preliminary official statement as so prepared is a
“deemed final” official statement
(except for permitted omissions) by
the City as of its date for purposes
of Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Rule 15c2-12(b)(1).
The distribution and use of one or
more preliminary official statements
are hereby authorized and approved.
Those officers and each of them
are also authorized, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
to complete each preliminary official statement with such modifications, changes and supplements as
those
officers
shall
approve
or
authorize for the purpose of preparing and determining, and to certify
or otherwise represent, that the official statement as so revised is a
final official statement for purposes
of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b) (3) and (4).
Those officers each are further
authorized to use and distribute, or
authorize the use and distribution
of, one or more final official statements and supplements thereto in
connection
with
the
original
issuance of the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds as may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate.
Those officers each are further
authorized to sign and deliver, on
behalf of the City and in their official capacities, each final official
statement and such certificates in
connection with the accuracy of
each preliminary official statement
and each final official statement
and any amendments thereto as
may, in their judgment, also be nec-

The City Record
essary or appropriate. The Director
of Finance is authorized to contract
for services for the production and
distribution of preliminary and final
official statements, including by
printed and electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds,
the City agrees, in accordance with,
and as an obligated person with
respect to the Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds under, SEC Rule 15c2-12, to
provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data and notices, in such manner, as
may be required for purposes of SEC
Rule 15c2-12. In order to describe
and specify certain terms of the
City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose, and thereby
to
implement
that
agreement,
including provisions for enforcement, amendment and termination,
the Director of Finance is authorized to prepare, or cause to be prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a continuing disclosure agreement
or certificate, which shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Series 2008 Refunding Bonds in
accordance with SEC Rule 15c2-12.
The performance of that agreement
shall be subject to the availability
of funds and their annual appropriation to meet costs the City would
be required to incur to perform it.
Section 12.
Lien of Pledge. The
Net Revenues are subject to the lien
of the pledge under the Indenture
without any physical delivery of the
Net Revenues or further act, and the
lien of such pledge is valid and
binding against all parties having
claims of any kind against the City
(irrespective of whether such parties have notice of such pledge and
create a perfected security interest
for all purposes of Chapter 1309,
Ohio Revised Code) without the
necessity for separation of delivery
of the Net Revenues or for the filing or recording of the Indenture or
any other resolution or instrument
by which such pledge is created or
any certificate, statement or other
document
with
respect
to
such
pledge. The pledge of the Net Revenues under the Indenture shall be
effective and the money therefrom
and thereof may be applied to the
purposes for which pledged without
necessity for any further act of
appropriation.
Section 13.
Financial Advisors
and Consultants. The Director of
Finance may obtain the services of
one or more Financial Advisors,
from time to time, to assist the
Director of Finance in making any
of the determinations required by
this Series 2008 Refunding Bond
Legislation to be determined by the
Director of Finance or to negotiate
any Hedge Agreements. The Director of Finance may rely on the written advice of any Financial Advisor
so retained. The Director of Public
Utilities and Director of Finance
may obtain the services of one or
more feasibility consultants, from
time to time, to provide reports in
connection with the issuance and
sale of any Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds or the delivery of any Hedge

52

January 16, 2008
Agreements concerning the utilization and operation of Cleveland Public Power, debt service coverage,
rates and charges or other matters.
Any Financial Advisor or consultant
employed under the authority of this
Series 2008 Refunding Bond Legislation shall be disinterested in the
transaction and be independent of
the underwriters or counterparties
and any other party interested in
the transaction.
Section 14.
Appointment of Successor Trustee. The Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
appoint a successor Trustee on
behalf of the City in the event that
the current Trustee shall resign or
be removed, or be dissolved or otherwise become incapable of acting
as Trustee under the Indenture, or
in case it shall be taken under the
control of any public officer or officers or of a receiver appointed by a
court, in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.08 of the Original
Indenture.
Section 15.
Open Meeting Determination. It is found and determined
that all formal actions of the Council concerning and relating to the
adoption of this Series 2008 Refunding Bond Legislation were adopted
in an open meeting of the Council,
and that all deliberations of the
Council and of any of its committees
that resulted in such formal action
were in meetings open to the public
in compliance with all applicable
legal requirements.
Section 16. Separability. Each section of this Series 2008 Refunding
Bond Legislation and each subdivision of any section is declared to be
independent, and the finding or
holding of any section or subdivision of any section to be invalid or
void shall not be deemed or held to
affect the validity of any other section or subdivision of this Series
2008 Refunding Bond Legislation.
Section 17.
Recitals. It is determined and recited that all acts, conditions and things necessary to be
done precedent to and in the issuing of the Series 2008 Refunding
Bonds in order to make the same
legal, valid and binding special
obligations issued by the City of
Cleveland, Ohio will have happened,
been done and performed or will
happen, be done and performed in
regular and due form as required by
law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness
or
taxation,
either
statutory or constitutional, is applicable to the issuance of the Series
2008 Refunding Bonds.
Section 18.
Effectiveness. This
Ordinance shall remain in effect for
the authorization of Series 2008
Refunding Bonds issued hereunder
for two years from its date of adoption.
Section 19. Emergency. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all the members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise, it shall take effect and
be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.

January 16, 2008

The City Record

19

Ord. No. 65-08.
By Council Members Zone, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, by adding new Section
523.049, establishing the Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule, and authorizing a related customer service
agreement for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the rates, rules, and regulations of the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, for electrical service, fixed by the Board of Control by Resolution No. _________, adopted _____________,
are approved.
Section 2. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are supplemented by adding new Section 523.049,
Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule, which shall read as follows:
Section 523.049 Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule
The following schedule is applicable to all new commercial customers who have not received Cleveland Public
Power service at their present location in the preceding two years, who enter into a written 10-year contract for
service anticipated to commence in 2010, who will be served by distribution capacity created as part of Cleveland
Public Power’s “Capacity Enhancement Program,” and whose peak demand is equal to or in excess of 150 kilowatts.
The availability of this rate schedule shall be limited to the first 100,000 kilowatts of peak demand contracted
under this rate schedule, or such lower total as may be determined by the Division.
The rates and charges contained in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this schedule shall be fixed for the duration
of the initial contract term. For all commercial installations during any month in which such installation has a
demand of less than 150 kilowatts, the appropriate standard rate schedule shall apply.
For all commercial installations during any month in which such installation has a demand of at least 150
kilowatts and less than 650 kilowatts:
(a)

Customer Charge per Month

(b)

Demand Charge

Kilowatt Per Month
For the first 200 kWd
For all excess kWd
(c)

Summer

Winter

$14.269/kWd
$12.631/kWd

$13.326/kWd
$11.750/kWd

$0.456/KVARD

$0.456/KVARD

$0.06709/kWh
$0.05115/kWh
$0.04197/kWh

$0.06365/kWh
$0.04790/kWh
$0.04017/kWh

Reactive Charge

Kilovar Demand Per Month
For all KVARD in excess of 30
(d)

$90.58

Kilowatt Hour Charge

Kilowatt Per Month
For the first 200 kWh/kWd
For the next 200 kWh/kWd
For all excess kWh

For all commercial installations during any month in which such installation has a demand equal to or greater
than 650 kilowatts:
(e)

Customer Charge per Month

(f)

Demand Charge

Kilowatt Per Month
For the first 500 kWd
For the next 500 kWd
For all excess kWd
(g)

Summer

Winter

$14.994/kWd
$13.905/kWd
$11.723/kWd

$14.994/kWd
$13.905/kWd
$11.723/kWd

$0.456/KVARD

$0.456/KVARD

$0.06480/kWh
$0.05100/kWh
$0.03552/kWh
$0.01362/kWh

$0.06480/kWh
$0.05100/kWh
$0.03552/kWh
$0.01362/kWh

Reactive Charge

Kilovar Demand Per Month
For all KVARD in excess of 30
(h)

$226.32

Kilowatt Hour Charge

Kilowatt Per Month
For the first 150 kWh/kWd
For the next 150 kWh/kWd
For the next 150 kWh/kWd
For all excess kWh

53

The City Record

20
(i)

January 16, 2008

Determination of Demand. The kilowatt demand shall be determined monthly by demand measurements,

and shall be the maximum thirty minute kilowatt demand during the month.
(j)

Determination of Reactive Demand. The reactive billing demand shall be determined by multiplying the

monthly kilowatt demand by the ratio of the monthly lagging reactive kilovolt ampere hours to the monthly kilowatt hours. At the Division’s option, the reactive billing demand may be the metered reactive demand.
(k)

Definition of Seasonal Rate. For the purpose of this rate schedule, the summer rate shall be in effect for

bills rendered during the months of June, July, August, and September. The winter rate shall be in effect for
bills rendered during the months of October, November, December, January, February, March, April, and May.
(l)

Discount for Primary Metering. Where the electric energy is metered on the primary (2,300 volts or high-

er) side of the service transformers, a discount of two percent of the gross primary metered kilowatt hours may
be allowed.
(m)

Substation Ownership Discount. A discount of thirty cents ($0.30) per kilowatt of demand billed may be

allowed when a customer owns, installs and maintains transformation and substation apparatus, thereby relieving the Division of these costs.
(n)

Combined Billing. At the option of the Division, where plural connections supply the same customer in

the same general location, meter readings may be added for billing purposes and the combined demand shall be
the coincident demand or the sum of the undiversified demands.
(o)

Transmission, Taxes, and Other Charges. Customers under this schedule shall be charged for increases

incurred after the adoption of this schedule for transmission service, costs or charges imposed by federal or state
law, regulatory authorities, regional transmission operators, or reliability authorities/organizations, and taxes of
any kind, however measured, paid directly or indirectly by the City. The kWh tax prescribed by Section 5727 of
the Ohio Revised Code, or any successor tax, shall be charged to the same extent as such tax is applied to customers under the standard CPP rate schedules.
Section 3. That the Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into service agreements substantially in
the following form:
Customer Agreement
This Agreement is made and entered into by and between the City of Cleveland, Ohio

(“the City”), acting by

and through its Director of Public Utilities or his authorized representative and (“Consumer”):
Recitals: The City desires to offer a discounted incentive-rate contract to a limited number of new commercial
customers for the purpose of supporting financing of improvements to enhance the capacity of the Cleveland Public Power (“CPP”) electric system.
In consideration of the agreements, promises, and undertakings herein set forth, the City, for itself, its successors and assigns and the Consumer for itself, its heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, do
hereby mutually agree as follows:
Article 1: The City will supply required 60 cycle, __/__ volts, _____ phase, ____ wire, alternating current, from
its electric system to the Consumer’s premises located at ___________________________.
Article 2: The Consumer states that the maximum demand or capacity required from the City’s electric system
is __ kWd and in the event that said maximum demand is changed, the Consumer will promptly notify the City
in writing of the increase or decrease in required capacity.
Article 3: For the electric service furnished under this Agreement, the Consumer agrees to pay the City in accordance with the Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule established by the City, the rates, terms, and conditions of which are contained in Attachment 1. Additional terms and conditions of service and other charges are
contained in the Codified Ordinances and may be amended from time to time by the City with approval by City
Council and applied to Consumer to the same extent as applied to customers in the CPP standard rate classes.
Said terms and conditions and other charges are hereby made a part of this Agreement the same as if stated
herein.
Article 4: The Consumer agrees to comply with all the rules and regulations as may be established by the City,
all of which are by reference made a part of this Agreement.
Article 5: The City will furnish the equipment necessary to bring electric service to the Consumer which shall
remain the property of the City and the City shall be permitted to remove the same at the termination of this
Agreement.
Article 6: The Consumer agrees that the City shall have the convenient and practical access, location and rightof-way to and upon the Consumer’s property as may be necessary to properly furnish and maintain the electric
equipment required to serve the Consumer.
Article 7: The Consumer agrees to pay the City monthly for electric service supplied.
Article 8: The City shall not be liable to the Consumer for any loss, injury, or damage resulting from the Consumer’s use of this electric service, the Consumer’s connection to the City’s system, interruption of service, consequential damage, or any other cause reasonably beyond the City’s control.
Article 9: This Agreement shall be in force beginning on the date hereof and continuing for an initial term of
ten (10) years from the date electric service is initially provided. This Agreement shall continue in force thereafter at the rates and charges in the applicable standard rate schedule until canceled by thirty (30) days written notice given by either party. This contract may be extended by written agreement for five (5) additional

54

The City Record

January 16, 2008

21

years. The rate in effect during such five-year renewal period shall be the amount Consumer would have paid
each year under the then-current standard tariff of the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (“CEI”), less
approximately the following discounts:
Year 1

5%

Year 2

4%

Year 3

3%

Year 4

2%

Year 5

1%

The actual discounts will vary depending on the characteristics of the Consumer’s usage.
The Consumer shall not contract with any other electric utility for electric service to be supplied during the
term of this Agreement.
Article 10: The Consumer agrees that Consumer shall be charged for increases incurred after the City’s adoption of the Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule for transmission service, costs or charges imposed by
federal or state law, regulatory authorities, regional transmission operators, or reliability authorities/ organizations, and taxes of any kind, however measured, paid directly or indirectly by the City. The kWh tax prescribed
by Section 5727 of the Ohio Revised Code, or any successor tax, shall be charged to the same extent as such tax
is applied to customers under the standard CPP rate schedules.
Article 11: The Consumer agrees that in the event the customer discontinues its service with the City in violation
of this Agreement the Consumer will be liable to repay CPP the savings that resulted from the discount, all
installation costs, and all damages suffered by the City. The savings to be repaid by Consumer shall be the
difference between the amount the Consumer would have paid under the applicable CEI standard tariff and the
amount Consumer paid under this Agreement.
Article 12: The Consumer agrees to bear the costs of any underground facilities necessary to serve Consumer’s
premises.
Article 13: This Agreement is contingent upon: 1) the passage of legislation establishing the Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule and authorizing the financing and construction of electric facilities necessary to
serve Consumer; 2) the subscription of sufficient customers under the Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule to make it economically feasible, in the Division’s sole judgment, to proceed with the construction of the
planned facilities; and 3) the construction of facilities necessary to serve Consumer.
Article 14: Service shall begin upon completion of facilities by the Division of Cleveland Public Power with a
target date of January 1, 2010. City will endeavor to provide Consumer with ninety (90) days’ notice of the commencement of service.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, said parties have hereunto set their hands this ______ Day of __________________,
200__.
Company Name

City of Cleveland

Contact Address

Department of Public Utilities
Division of Cleveland Public Power

By: _______________________________________

Approved: ___________________________
Commissioner

Title: _____________________________________
Date: _____________________________________

Date: ________________________________

The legal form and correctness of this
instrument is approved by:

______________________________________

___________________________________________

Director of Public Utilities

Assistant Director of Law
Date:_________________________________
Date:______________________________________
______

Contract No.: ________________________

___

___________________________________________
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred

to

Directors

of

Public

Utilities,

Finance,

Finance.

55

Law;

Committees

on

Public

Utilities,

Legislation,

22
Ord. No. 66-08.
By Council Members Turner, Conwell, Pierce Scott, Lewis, Brady, Polensek, Westbrook, Cleveland, Coats and
Keane.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 676.01 and 676.06 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance Nos. 1132-04 passed July 12,
2006 and 2704-A-90 passed June 15,
1992, relating to junk and secondhand dealers.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 676.01 and
676.06 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance Nos. 1132-04 passed
July 12, 2006 and 2704-A-90 passed
June 15, 1992, are amended to read
as follows:
Section 676.01 Definitions; Identification Plate; Scope of Provisions
(a) As used in this chapter:
(1) “Junk” means used or secondhand
materials,
including
scrap
metal, pipe, glass, bottles, paper,
canvas, rope, rags, tires, automobile
or truck parts, used building materials (except bona fide architectural
antiques) and other similar materials.
(2) “Junk cart” means any vehicle
in the streets of the City used for
the purpose of collecting, transporting or selling junk.
(3) “Junk dealer” means anyone
dealing in the purchase or sale of
junk, except a motor vehicle salvage dealer, salvage motor vehicle
auction, or salvage motor vehicle
pool licensed pursuant to RC Chapter 4738. or a scrap metal processor.
(4) “Junk yard” means any outdoor premises used for the storage,
purchase, sale, exchange, haling,
packaging, processing, disassembly,
or handling of junk. For purposes of
Section 676.13, “junk yard” includes
“scrap metal processing facility.”
(5) “Regulated items” means:
A. Monument plaques, statutes
and sculptures composed of any
metal, traffic signs, street signs, and
aluminum light poles;
B. Brass or bronze bar stock and
bar ends, railroad journals, RTA
journals, gas meters, water meters,
ingots, and #1 copper;
C. #2 copper. For purposes of this
paragraph, “#1 copper” and “#2 copper” mean #1 copper and #2 copper
as specified by the most recent
Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries. Inc. Scrap Specifications Circular including residential copper
plumbing and electrical wire;
D. Aluminum and Vinyl Residential Siding;
E. Aluminum gutters and downspouts;
F. Stained glass;
G. All household fixtures;
H. All fixtures or property found
in places of worship; and
I. Catalytic converters.
(6) “Scrap metal processor” means
any person, firm, or corporation who

The City Record
processes iron, steel, or nonferrous
scrap, and whose principal product
is scrap iron and steel or nonferrous
scrap for sale for remelting purposes.
(7) “Scrap metal processing facility” means any establishment having facilities for processing iron,
steel, or nonferrous scrap, and the
principal product of which is scrap
iron and steel or nonferrous scrap
for sale for remelting purposes.
(8) “Secondhand dealer” means
any person, firm or corporation
dealing in the purchase or sale of
secondhand articles of whatever
nature, or dealing in the purchase
or sale of any secondhand manufactured article composed wholly
or in part of gold, silver, platinum
or other metals, or in the purchase
or sale of old gold, silver or platinum, or any person, firm or corporation dealing in the purchase of
articles or things comprised of
gold, silver or platinum for the purpose of melting or refining, or
engaged in melting precious metals
for the purpose of selling, or
engaged in the purchase or sale of
pawnbroker tickets or other evidence of pledged articles, or not
being a pawnbroker, who deals in
the redemption or sale of pledged
articles.
(b) Any vehicle used for the purpose of collecting, transporting or
selling any junk shall be furnished
by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses with a plate to
be affixed to a conspicuous and
indispensable part of the vehicle,
on which plate shall be clearly set
forth the official number of the
junk cart with the words “Junk
Cart” and the date of license expiration. The design or color of this
plate shall be changed at the
beginning of each license year.
This division shall not apply to
scrap metal processors who have
obtained a license pursuant to Sections 676.02 through 676.04.
(c) Nothing in this section shall
be deemed to apply to persons, firms
or corporations dealing in the purchase or sale of secondhand planos,
books, magazines, rugs, tapestries,
burlaps, paintings, drawings, etchings and engravings, nor to exchanges, returns or credits of merchandise where the article or articles exchanged, returned or credited
are accepted in full or part payment
for new merchandise; nor to persons,
firms or corporations who deal
exclusively
in
heavy
industrial
equipment, furniture or secondhand
automobiles.
(d) Not later than one (1) year
after the effective date of this section and at least annually thereafter
the Director of Public Safety shall
submit to the Council a report as to
whether the definition of “regulated
items” contained in division (a) (5)
of this section should be revised. If,
in the opinion of the director, said
definition is in need of revision, the
report shall contain the director’s
recommendations therefor. The director shall make a good faith effort
to notify representatives of affected
industries prior to submission of the
report to Council.

56

January 16, 2008
Section 676.06 Junk Dealer’s and
Scrap Metal Processor’s Reporting
and Retention Requirements’ Inspections
(a) Every junk dealer and every
scrap metal processor shall keep at
each place of business maintained
by either of them a legibly written
or typed record which contains a
general description of the aggregate material in each load delivered to that place of business in a
vehicle other than a vehicle which
is owned by or leased to the junk
dealer or scrap metal processor who
owns that place of business. In
such record the junk dealer or
scrap metal processor shall list the
name and address of the vendor
and the license number of the
motor vehicle, trailer, or other vehicle in which the material was delivered to the junk dealer or the scrap
metal processor.
(b) In addition to the information
required by division (a) of this section, a junk dealer or scrap metal
processor who accepts any delivery
of a regulated item from a vendor
who is not an “Exempt Entity,” as
defined in division (g) of this section, shall also create and maintain
a record which contains the following:
(1) The name, initials, or other
identification
of
the
individual
entering the information in the
record;
(2) The date and time of the
transaction;
(3) The weight and a description
of the type of regulated item purchased in the transaction;
(4) The amount of consideration
given in a purchase transaction for
the regulated item;
(5) A photocopy of a valid driver’s
license issued by any state or identification card issued by the State of
Ohio, which belongs to and is presented by the person delivering the
regulated item or items. If said person is unable to supply either form
of identification described in this
paragraph, the junk dealer or scrap
metal processor shall not accept
delivery of the regulated item or
items;
(6) As complete a description as
possible of the vehicle used to
transport the acquired regulated
items, but not less than the make,
type, and color or colors.
(c) (i) In addition to supplying
the information required by divisions (a) and (b) of this section, a
junk dealer or scrap metal processor who accepts any delivery of a
single regulated item which is described in division (a)(5)A. of Section 676.01, regardless of amount, or
any delivery of a single regulated
item which is described in division
(a)(5)B. of Section 676.01 in one day
in an amount equal to or greater
than three hundred (300) pounds,
from one vendor who is not an
“Exempt Entity,” as defined in division (g) of this section, shall also
keep that delivery in its original
form, accessible, identifiable, and
intact for a period of three (3) days,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays, from the date upon
which the junk dealer or scrap

January 16, 2008
metal processor accepted the delivery.
(ii) In addition to supplying the
information required by divisions
(a) and (b) of this section, a junk
dealer or scrap metal processor who
accepts any delivery of a regulated
item described as a catalytic converter in division (a)(5) (I) of section 676.01, from a vendor who is
not an “Exempt Entity”, shall keep
that delivery in its original form,
accessible, identifiable and intact
for a period of ten (10) days,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays, from the date upon
which the junk dealer or scrap
metal processor accepted the delivery.
(iii)
Notwithstanding
divisions
(c) (i) and (ii) of this section, if a
law enforcement officer gives written notice that stolen material has
been found among the regulated
items which are held pursuant to
this division, the junk dealer or
scrap metal processor in whose possession the material is found shall
keep it in its original form, accessible, identifiable and intact until
such time as the law enforcement
officer is able to seize the material as evidence, but not more than
ten (10) business days from the
date the law enforcement officer
gives the written notice required by
this sentence.
(d) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, if a law
enforcement officer gives written
notice to a junk dealer or scrap
metal processor of items, materials
or types of items or materials which
the law enforcement agency is
attempting
to
locate
(“Suspect
Items”), the following provisions
shall apply:
(1) The law enforcement officer
shall transmit such a notice by facsimile (“fax”) machine or by personal service;
(2) The notice shall be in effect
for seven (7) calendar days and
shall describe the Suspect Items in
sufficient
detail
to
reasonably
apprise the junk dealer or scrap
metal processor of exactly which
items, materials, or types of items
or
materials
constitute
Suspect
Items for the purposes of the
notice, provided that a law enforcement officer may add additional
such seven (7) day periods if the
law enforcement officer gives the
junk dealer or scrap metal processor actual notice of each such
extension by fax machine or personal service;
(3) Regardless of the amount of
delivery, whether the item or material is a regulated item, or whether
the vendor is an Exempt Entity:
A. the requirements of division
(b) shall apply to all deliveries of
Suspect Items; and
B. a junk dealer or scrap metal
processor shall keep a Suspect Item
or Suspect Items in its original
form, accessible, identifiable, and
intact for a period of three (3) days,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays, from the date upon
which the junk dealer or scrap
metal processor receives the notice,
provided that a law enforcement

The City Record
officer may add additional such
three (3) day periods up to a maximum of nine (9) additional days if
the law enforcement officer gives
the junk dealer or scrap metal
processor actual notice of each such
extension by fax machine or personal service;
(4) Each law enforcement agency
shall keep a log of the notices transmitted pursuant to this division. The
log shall contain:
A. the fax number to which the
notice was sent or the name of the
person upon whom the notice was
served;
B. the date and time of the fax
transmittal or the personal service;
C. the name of the person who
sent the fax or made the personal
service; and
D. in the case of all notices sent
by fax machine, the sheet printed by
the fax machine which verifies the
transmittal.
If the law enforcement agency’s
log contains all of the above-listed
information, the notice shall be
deemed received by a particular
junk dealer or scrap metal processor as of the date and time contained in the log. If the law
enforcement agency’s log does not
contain all of the above-listed information, any junk dealer or scrap
metal processor with respect to
whom the log is deficient shall
have no obligation to comply with
this division;
(5) If a notice is deemed received
by a junk dealer or scrap metal
processor and the dealer or processor accepts delivery of a Suspect
Item or Suspect Items during the
period described in paragraph (2)
of this division, the dealer or
processor shall immediately notify
the Fraud Unit of the City’s Division of Police;
(6) If a junk dealer or scrap
metal processor notifies the Fraud
Unit of the City’s Division of Police
pursuant to paragraph (5) of this
division, a law enforcement officer
shall visit the premises of the dealer or processor to inspect the Suspect Item or Suspect Items by the
end of the next day, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays;
(7) If a law enforcement officer
does not comply with the provisions
of paragraph (6) of this division,
the junk dealer or scrap metal
processor shall no longer be subject
to the provisions of paragraph (3)B.
of this division with respect to the
delivery of Suspect Items of which
the dealer or processor gave notice
pursuant to paragraph (6) of this
division;
(8) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this division, if a law
enforcement officer identifies in particular delivery of a Suspect Item as
stolen, the dealer or processor in
whose possession the delivery is
found shall keep it in its original
form, accessible, identifiable and
intact until such time as the law
enforcement officer is able to seize
the delivery as evidence, but not
more than ten (10) business days
from the date the law enforcement

57

23
officer identified Suspect Items as
stolen;
(9) The Director of Public Safety
shall make quarterly reports to the
Council to convey the following
information:
A. the number of notices transmitted by fax and the number
served personally;
B. the period for holding a Suspect
Item set forth in each notice served;
C. whether any Suspect Items
were located by the Division of
Police as a result of any of the
notices.
(e) Within two (2) business days
after a transaction described in
division (c) of this section, the
information described in division
(b) of this section which pertains
to that transaction shall be transferred to or made part of a permanent record which shall be kept by
the junk dealer or scrap metal
processor for at least one year
after the date of the transaction.
Nothing in this division shall be
construed to decrease any period of
mandatory record retention contained in any other state or local
law or regulation applicable to
junk dealers or scrap metal processors.
(f) All records described in this
section, all regulated items, and all
materials described in division (d)
of this section shall be available at
all reasonable times for inspection
by any law enforcement officer.
Such records, items, and materials
shall also be available for inspection by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses and persons
duly authorized by the Commissioner at such reasonable times as are
necessary to ensure compliance with
this chapter.
(g) For purposes of this section,
an “Exempt Entity” is:
(1) any industrial or commercial
entity which generates a regulated
item or regulated items in the ordinary course of its business; or
(2) any entity which delivers a
regulated item or regulated items
derived from a demolition for which
the Commissioner of Building and
Housing has issued a permit pursuant to Section 3115.04, or for which
a similar license or permit has been
issued outside of the City.
(h) Divisions (b) through (g) of
this section shall apply also to secondhand dealers.
Section 2. That existing Sections
676.01 and 676.06 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance Nos. 113204 passed July 12, 2006 and 2704-A90 passed June 15, 1992, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Public Safety, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Safety,
Legislation, Finance.

The City Record

24
Ord. No. 67-08.
By Council Members Lewis, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 188.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 2031-A-02,
passed June 10, 2003, relating to violation and penalty regarding construction contracts.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 188.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2031-A-02, passed June 10,
2003, is amended:
Section 188.05

Violation and Penal-

ty
(a) When work under a Construction Contract is completed, and
in the event that the Director determines that the Contractor has failed
to fulfill the requirements contained
in Section 188.02 concerning Construction Worker Hours performed
by Residents of the City or has
failed to submit reports as required
in Sections 188.02 and 188.04, the
City is deemed to have been damaged. Good faith efforts on the part
of the Contractor or Subcontractor to
provide employment to Residents of
the City shall not suffice to replace
the actual, verified achievement of
the requirements contained in Section 188.02.
(b) In the event the Contractor
breaches its Construction Contract
obligation for Resident Construction
Worker Hours stated in Section
188.02, one eighth (1/8) of one (1)
percent of the final total amount of
the Construction Contract shall be
paid by the Contractor to the City
in payment for each percentage of
shortfall toward the Resident Construction Worker Hours set forth in
Section 188.02 or the reduced requirement established by the Director in
accordance with Section 188.03. In
the event the Low Income Person
objective is not achieved, the Director shall determine if a penalty is
appropriate and assess the penalty
in his/her discretion.
(c) Failure to submit, or knowing
falsification of, the reports required
in Sections 188.02 and 188.04 shall
result in a breach of the Construction Contract subject to assessment
of the maximum penalty provided in
division (b), and the penalty shall
be calculated as if no Residents of
the City were employed on the construction project in furtherance of
the Construction Contract.
(d) No Contractor shall knowingly falsify any required reports,
statements or payroll certifications.
Any Contractor who knowingly falsifies reports, statements or the certification of payroll data Is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and subject to a fine of not more
than five thousand dollars ($5,000).
If a Contractor is convicted under
this division, that Contractor shall
be barred from contracting with the
City on any construction project subject to this Chapter for a period of
five (5) years.
(e) Any retainage to cover contract performance that may become
due to the Contractor pursuant to
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland may be withheld by the

City pending the determination by
the Director of whether the Contractor must pay a penalty.
(f) The imposition of any penalty
or fine under this section shall not
preclude the City from exercising
any other rights or remedies to
which it is entitled.
(g) All funds collected by the City
of Cleveland under division (b) or
(c) of this section shall be deposited into a special account which
shall be created for the sole purpose
of receiving said funds. The funds
deposited into this account shall be
used for the operation of the Office
of Equal Opportunity provided such
funds have been appropriated for
that purpose, provided there is any
necessary legislative authority and
provided the funds are used in compliance with all laws or restrictions
regarding their use.
(h) No person shall knowingly
supply false information to establish
that the person is a Resident for
purposes of this Chapter. Any person who knowingly supplies false
information to establish that he or
she is a Resident is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Upon
conviction, such person shall be
barred from employment in furtherance of a Construction Contract for
a period of five (5) years.
Section 2. That existing Section
188.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 2031-A-02, passed June
10, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Office of
Equal Opportunity, Finance, Law;
Committees on Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 69-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase property
for storage and parking for City
vehicles and equipment at 9314-16
Kennedy Avenue and 9402-04 Kennedy Avenue for the Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
through the use of Ward 4 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties has requested the purchase of property
which is located at 9314-16 Kennedy
Avenue and 9402-04 Kennedy Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, for storage and parking for City vehicles
and equipment; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase through the use of Ward 4
Neighborhood Equity Funds the following described property for the
public purpose for the storage and

58

January 16, 2008
parking of City vehicles and equipment:
9314 Kennedy Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44104, Permanent Parcel No:
126-15-025, which is situated in the
City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio: and known
as being southerly 65 feet of sublot
No. 58 in Yankel and Orwing’s subdivision of part of original 100 acre
lot No. 417 and 418 as shown by the
recorded plat in volume 5 of maps,
page 17 of Cuyahoga County records
and being 65 feet front on the easterly side of line of an alley 12 feet
in width and 40 feet deep on the
northerly line of an alley 11 feet 51/4 inches in width and as wide in
the rear, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
9402-04 Kennedy Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Parcel
No. 126-15-026 which is situated in
the City of Cleveland, County of
Cuyahoga and State of Ohio: and
known as being sublot No. 59 in
Yeakel and Orwing’s allotment of
part of original one-hundred acre lot
No. 417 and 418 as shown by the
recorded plat in volume 5 of maps,
page 17 of Cuyahoga County records
and being 40 feet front on the
southerly side of Kennedy Avenue
S.E. (Formerly Pean Street) and
extending back between parallel
lines 130 feet deep, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
9316 Kennedy Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio, 44014, Permanent Parcel No.
126-15-105, which is situated in the
County of Cuyahoga and in the City
of
Cleveland
and
bounded
and
described as follows: and known as
being northerly 65 feet of sublot No.
58 in Yeakel and Orwing’s subdivision of part of 100 acre lots Nos. 417
and 418, as shown by the recorded
plat in volume 5 of maps, page 17
of Cuyahoga County records and
being 40 feet front on the southerly
side of Kennedy Avenue S.E. (Formerly Penn Street) 65 feet deep on
the easterly line, 65 feet deep on the
westerly line, which is also the easterly line of an alley 12 feet in width,
and 40 feet wide in the rear, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to execute on behalf of
the City of Cleveland all necessary
documents to acquire the property
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers,
environmental
audits,
and all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the property.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for this property shall be
the fair market value as determined
by the Board of Control and not to
exceed $43,750.
Section 4. That all costs of acquisition of land shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.

January 16, 2008
FIRST READING
ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 77-08.
By Mayor Jackson, Council Members Lewis, Cleveland and Sweeney.
An ordinance to amend Section
123.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed
June 15, 1992, relating to the Office
of Equal Opportunity; to supplement
the codified ordinances by enacting
new Sections 187.01 to 187.29 relating to the Cleveland Area Business
Code; and to repeal existing Sections
187.01 to 187.16 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted or amended by various ordinances.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has a compelling interest in maintaining and advancing the public
welfare by assuring that its public
expenditures promote the financial
growth and stability of area small
businesses without discrimination
as to ownership; and
Whereas, as one of the poorest
large cities in America, Cleveland
needs to support and stimulate its
economy by spending its procurement dollars, to the extent possible,
in Cleveland area small businesses;
and
Whereas, the growth and stability
of Cleveland area small businesses
directly results in the preservation
and creation of jobs for Clevelanders; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
endeavors to increase economic opportunity for Cleveland area small,
minority-, and female-owned businesses as one means to enhance the
well-being of the citizens of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
through the Mayor’s Office of Equal
Opportunity, is organized and able
to provide technical assistance to
small, minority-, and female-owned
enterprises; and
Whereas, absent discrimination,
over time, an employer’s workforce
profile generally will reflect the
gender, racial, ethnic, and other
demographic characteristics of the
available workforce of its environs;
and
Whereas, requiring City contractors whose workforce profiles, over
time, do not reflect the demographic
characteristics of the available workforce in the Cleveland area to prepare and implement an affirmative
action plan will assure that Cleveland’s procurement dollars do not
serve to finance private prejudice or
discrimination; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, effective one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the passage date of this ordinance,
Section 123.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1186-92,
passed June 15, 1992, is amended to
read as follows:
Section 123.08
Office of Equal
Opportunity
(a) There is established in the
Office of the Mayor, the Office of
Equal Opportunity to be adminis-

The City Record
tered and controlled by an Executive Assistant to the Mayor appointed by the Mayor to be the Director
of Equal Opportunity. The Director
shall appoint, under the civil service
provisions of the Charter, employees
required to perform the duties of the
office, and shall be responsible for
their supervision.
(b) According to the City’s desire
to encourage equal employment opportunity of minorities and women
by contractors, and to promote use
in all City Contracts, as defined in
Section 187.01, of minority business
enterprises (MBEs), female business
enterprises (FBEs) and Cleveland
Area Small Businesses (CSBs), all
as defined in Section 187.01, when
appropriate under Chapter 187 (collectively, the “Targeted Businesses”), the Director of Equal Opportunity shall:
(1) Supervise, coordinate, monitor,
and enforce for all City contracts
affirmative action programs and the
CSB, MBE and FBE programs in the
manner described in Chapter 187.
(2) Supervise, coordinate, monitor,
and enforce for all City contracts,
compliance with the City’s equal
employment
opportunity
requirements, including but not limited to
procedures, affirmative action programs, employment goals, and other
means to implement CSB, MBE and
FBE participation goals, when and
as specifically applicable, in the
manner described in Chapter 187. All
compliance functions of the various
contracting departments shall be
performed in or under the direction
of the Office of Equal Opportunity.
The Director of Equal Opportunity
shall be responsible for securing
compliance by all contractors and
subcontractors with the provisions
of Chapter 187, as appropriate, and
any implementing rules or regulations. Contracting departments shall
comply with the provisions of Chapter 187 and any implementing rules
or regulations of the Director of
Equal Opportunity. Contracting departments shall cooperate with the
Director of Equal Opportunity and
shall furnish such information and
assistance as the Director of Equal
Opportunity may require.
(3) Provide appropriate management, technical assistance, and information to and programs for Targeted Businesses to maximize their
participation in City contracts, with
the assistance to include:
A. Providing assistance with the
establishment, expansion, and overall development of Targeted Businesses;
B. Assisting in the arrangement of
business associations among individuals, the Targeted Businesses,
and other businesses; and
C. Planning and participating in
training seminars to inform potential bidders of applicable programs,
and business opportunities available.
(4) Serve as liaison with economic development organizations and
agencies which support the development of Targeted Businesses
in the community.
(5) Coordinate any City-sponsored
economic development programs for
Targeted Businesses.

59

25
(6) Promulgate, and revise as necessary,
regulations
implementing
the Cleveland Area Business Program under Chapter 187.
(c) It shall also be the duty of the
Director of Equal Opportunity to
ensure that the City’s contractors
comply with applicable prevailing
wage laws.
(d) By February 15 of each year,
the Mayor shall file the following
written reports with the Clerk of
Council, and a copy shall be provided to each member of the Council:
(1) A report stating, for each City
department and for the City as a
whole, the percentage and total
value of contracts and subcontracts
performed by CSBs, MBEs and FBEs
during the preceding year.
(2) Such other information related
to the Cleveland Area Business Program under Chapter 187 as may be
useful in evaluating the success of
the program.
Section 2. That, effective one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the passage date of this ordinance,
existing Section 123.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1186-92, passed June 15, 1992, is
repealed.
Section 3. That, effective one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the passage date of this ordinance,
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are amended by
enacting new Sections 187.01 to
187.29 to read as follows:
CHAPTER 187
THE CLEVELAND AREA
BUSINESS CODE
Section 187.01 Definitions of Terms
As used in this Chapter, the following words, phrases, and terms
shall be defined as set forth below:
(a) “Administrator” means the
employee or employees in the OEO
designated by the Director to act as
an administrator of the Cleveland
Area Business Program.
(b) “Bidder” means a Person offering to contract with the City in
response to an invitation to bid, and
for purposes of this Code, includes
a proposer in response to a request
for proposals or other similar solicitation.
(c) “Bid Discount” means the
application of a percentage discount
to the total amount of a bid submitted by a Bidder for a Contract
solely for the purpose of bid comparisons when evaluating the lowest
and best bid, or lowest responsible
bid. The use of a Bid Discount for
Bid Comparison does not alter the
total amount of the bid submitted by
a Bidder or the Contract executed
based on a bid.
(d) “Business Enterprise” means a
firm, sole proprietorship, partnership, association, corporation, company, or other business entity of any
kind including, but not limited to, a
limited liability corporation, incorporated
professional
association,
joint venture, estate, or trust.
(e) “City” means the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
(f) “City of Cleveland Small Business” or “CCSB” means a CSB that

26
has its principal office located physically within the municipal boundaries of the City.
(g)
“Cleveland
Area
Business
Code”, “Cleveland Area Business
Program”,
“Code”
or
“Chapter”
means all of the provisions of this
Chapter 187 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
(h) “Cleveland Area Small Business” or “CSB” means a Business
Enterprise certified under division
(a) of Section 187.03.
(i) “Cleveland Contracting Market” or “Contracting Market” means
the geographic market area consisting of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, or
the geographic market area identified in a disparity study or otherwise as provided in Section 187.28.
(j) “Commercially Useful Function” means execution by a CSB,
MBE, or FBE of a distinct element
of the work in carrying out its
responsibilities by actually performing, managing, and supervising the
work involved by its personnel,
materials, and assets. To determine
whether a Business Enterprise is
performing a Commercially Useful
Function, the City will evaluate the
amount of the Contractor’s work
which is subcontracted, industry
practices, and other relevant factors
tending to demonstrate actual performance.
(k) “Construction” means the erection, rehabilitation, alteration, conversion, extension, demolition or
repair of improvements to real property, including facilities providing
utility service and includes the
supervision, inspection, and other
on-site functions incidental to construction.
(l) “Contract” means a binding
agreement executed on or after the
effective date of this Cleveland Area
Business Code by which the City
either grants a privilege or is committed to expend or does expend its
funds or other resources, or confers
a benefit having monetary value
including, but not limited to, a
grant, loan, interest in real or personal property, or tax incentive in
any form for or in connection with
any work, project, or public purpose
including, but not limited to, a contract for the:
(1) Construction of any public
improvement,
including
change
orders or subsidiary agreements
approved by the City during the performance of such Construction;
(2) Purchase of personal property;
(3) Purchase of any supplies,
equipment or services;
(4) Lease by way of concession
under Section 183.03;
(5) Lease of any personal property; or
(6) Grant by concession agreement of a specific permission, privilege, or license under Sections
183.04, 183.041, and 184.044 of the
Codified Ordinances.
“Contract” shall include a binding
agreement, funded or benefited by
the City, between a party to a Contract and a third party, but shall
exclude contracts with other public
entities, except as provided in Section 187.09. For purposes of MBE
and
FBE
utilization,
“Contract”
shall only include the specific types

The City Record
and categories of Contracts and Contractors identified in a disparity
study or otherwise as the subject of
past or present discrimination as
provided in Section 187.28.
(m) “Contracting Department” includes any administrative department under charge of the Mayor or
any office, board, or commission
treated or construed as a department of City government for any
purpose under the Charter or ordinances of the City for the benefit or
program of which the City enters
into a particular Contract.
(n) “Contractor” means a separate
or distinguishable Business Enterprise employing one or more persons
and participating in the performance of a Contract, including but
not limited to CSBs, MBEs and
FBEs where applicable, and shall
include a party in privity with a
Contractor for implementation of a
Contract.
(o) “Control” means the unencumbered ability to direct operations
and management.
(p) “Director” means the Director
of the Office of Equal Opportunity.
(q) “Disability” means any physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of an
individual’s major life activities.
(r) “Discriminate” means to exclude an individual or group solely
on the basis of race, religion, color,
sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, Disability, ethnic group or
Vietnam-era or disabled-veteran status.
(s) “Discriminate on the basis of
age” means to Discriminate as determined by appropriate Federal
law against individuals over the age
of forty (40).
(t) “Evaluation Credit” means a
predetermined number of points in
the evaluation of proposals submitted by a Bidder for a Contract to be
added solely for the purpose of proposal comparison when evaluating
competing proposals. The use of
Evaluation Credits does not alter
the amount of the proposal submitted by a Bidder or the Contract executed based on the proposal.
(u) “Female” includes only a United States citizen or lawful, permanent resident who is a member of
the female gender.
(v) “Female Business Enterprise”
or “FBE” means a Business Enterprise owned, operated, and controlled by one or more Females who
have 51% ownership and against
whom past or present discrimination
has been demonstrated as provided
in Section 187.28. The one or more
Females must have operational and
managerial Control, interest in capital, and earnings commensurate
with the percentage of Female ownership. To qualify as a Female Business Enterprise, the Business Enterprise shall be located and doing
business in the Cleveland Contracting Market.
(w) “Front Organization” means
any FBE, MBE, or CSB that serves
as a Contractor, or as a subcontractor to any Contractor under Contract, who obtained and/or retained
certification through false statements or who committed to performance of a distinct element of the

60

January 16, 2008
work under the Contract but did not
carry out its responsibilities by actually performing, managing or supervising the work involved, or who
did not provide products, services,
goods or supplies in a manner, in
the Director’s determination, consistent with its certification.
(x) “Joint venture” means an association of two or more persons or
businesses to carry out a single
business enterprise for profit for
which purpose they combine their
property, capital, efforts, skills and
knowledge.
(y) “Minority Person” means a
United States citizen or lawful, permanent resident who is a member of
a racial or ethnic group, such as
African American, Hispanic American, Asian American or Native
American, against whom past or present discrimination has been demonstrated as provided in Section 187.28.
(z) “Minority Business Enterprise”
or “MBE” means a Business Enterprise owned, operated and controlled
by one or more Minority Persons
who have at least 51% ownership
and against whom past or present
discrimination has been demonstrated as provided in Section 187.28. The
Minority Person(s) must have operational
and
managerial
Control,
interest in capital, and earnings
commensurate with the percentage
of ownership. To qualify as a Minority Business Enterprise, the enterprise shall be located and doing
business in the Cleveland Contracting Market.
(aa) “OEO” means the Office of
Equal Opportunity of the City of
Cleveland.
(bb) “Person” means and includes
a natural person, a Business Enterprise or other entity, unless the context or usage requires otherwise.
(cc) “Public Improvement” means
a project determined by the City
Council to be a public improvement
under Section 167 of the Cleveland
City Charter.
(dd) “Regional Cleveland Area
Small Business” or “RCSB” means a
CSB that has its principal office
located physically within the territorial boundaries of Cuyahoga County but outside the municipal boundaries of the City.
(ee) “Regulation” or “Regulations”
means and includes the regulations
implementing this Code and promulgated by the Director of Equal
Opportunity under division (b)(6) of
Section 123.08 of these Codified Ordinances.
(ff) “Small Business Enterprise”
or “SBE” means a Business Enterprise that meets the established economic criteria for a SBE and is
owned, operated and controlled by
one or more persons who meet the
economic criteria for SBE ownership
established by the Director in the
Regulations.
(gg) “Supplier” means a Business
Enterprise performing a Commercially Useful Function in the supply
process when it:
(1) Assumes the actual and contractual responsibility for furnishing the supplies or materials;
(2) Is recognized as a distributor
of the contracted supplies and materials by the industry involved;

January 16, 2008
(3) Owns or leases a warehouse,
yard, building or other facilities for
stocking inventory or otherwise conducts business in a manner which is
usual and customary in the industry
and market for the supplies or materials; and
(4) Distributes, delivers, and services products primarily with its
own staff and/or equipment.
Section 187.02 Duties of Director
of Office of Equal Opportunity
In addition to those duties specified in Section 123.08, the Director,
through
the
Administrator
and
other employees as necessary, shall
implement and enforce this Code
under its provisions. The Director’s
duties shall include, but not be limited to:
(a) Reviewing all submittals and
other information required under
this Code to determine whether a
particular Contractor has been certified or approved:
(1) With respect to the affirmative action programs established
under divisions (b) and (c) of Section 187.15;
(2) As a CSB, CCSB or RCSB;
(3) As a bona fide CSB, MBE, or
FBE Joint Venture;
(4) As a Minority Business Enterprise;
(5) As a Female Business Enterprise;
(6) As having submitted a responsive bid with respect to OEOrequired submittals; or
(7) As being in compliance with
this Code and its regulations.
(b) Notifying an affected Contracting Department that the certificates or statements pertaining to
particular Contractors are or are not
currently effective with respect to
the matters for which the same were
issued;
(c) Monitoring the general performance, workforce, and subcontracting
practices
of
Contractors
to
ensure continued compliance with
this Code;
(d) Initiating and receiving complaints of non-compliance with this
Code;
(e) Investigating complaints pertaining to non-compliance with this
Code and recommending appropriate
sanctions; and
(f) Implementing the hearing procedures provided in Sections 187.18
and 187.20.
Section 187.03
Certification of
Cleveland Area Small Businesses;
Application of Bid Discounts for
Bid Comparison
(a) A Business Enterprise is eligible for certification as a Cleveland
Area Small Business if:
(1) it is a Small Business Enterprise;
(2) it has its principal office located physically in the Cleveland Contracting Market; and
(3) its chief executive officer and
highest level managers maintain
their offices and perform their managerial functions in the Cleveland
Contracting Market.
(b) Subject to the limitation contained in division (g) of Section
187.05, Contracting Departments may
apply a Bid Discount in the follow-

The City Record
ing amounts for bids received from
CSB prime contractors:
(1) A Bid Discount of five percent
(5%) for bids received from CCSBs.
(2) A Bid Discount of five percent
(5%) for bids received from RCSBs,
provided no bids are received from
CCSB’s.
(c) Subject to the limitation contained in division (g) of Section
187.05, Contracting Departments may
apply Evaluation Credits as follows
for proposals received from CSB
prime contractors:
(1) An Evaluation Credit of five
percent (5%) of the total points
awarded for proposals received from
CCSBs.
(2) An Evaluation Credit of five
percent (5%) of the total points
awarded for proposals received from
RCSBs, provided no proposals are
received from CCSBs.
(d) Subject to the limitation contained in division (g) of Section
187.05, Contracting Departments may
apply
a
Bid
Discount
to
bids
received for a Public Improvement
Contract from a Business Enterprise
in the amount of five percent (5%)
of the portion of the total amount of
labor and materials that the Bidder
represents it will subcontract to one
or more CSBs.
(1) If a Contracting Department
applies the Bid Discount under division (d) of this section to the bid of
a Bidder that would not have otherwise been the lowest and the Bidder is awarded the Public Improvement Contract, the City shall retain
as Additional Retainage an amount
equal to the total dollar amount by
which the bid was adjusted for bid
comparison in addition to the retainage
required
under
Section
185.41 of the Codified Ordinances.
(2) If a Contractor uses CSB subcontractors in the performance of
the Public Improvement Contract in
an amount equal to or greater than
offered in the Contractor’s bid, the
City shall pay the Contractor any
Additional Retainage retained under
division (d)(1) of this section upon
the Contracting Department director’s acceptance of the contract
work under division (d) of Section
185.41. If a Contractor uses CSB subcontractors in the performance of a
Public Improvement Contract in an
amount less than represented in its
bid, the Contractor shall forfeit the
amount of the Additional Retainage
equal to the amount of shortfall in
its CSB usage, in addition to any
other sanctions or penalties applicable under this Chapter or the Contract.
(3) If a Contracting Department
applies the Bid Discount under
division (d) of this section to the
bid of a Bidder that would not have
otherwise been the lowest and the
Bidder is awarded the Public Improvement Contract, the Contract
terms shall prohibit the Contractor
from deducting the amount of the
Additional
Retainage
from
progress payments to the CSB subcontractors.
(e) The maximum cumulative dollar amount of all Bid Discounts to
a Bidder for a bid under divisions
(b) and (d) of this section shall not
exceed $50,000.00.

61

27
(f) Certificates issued under this
section shall be valid for the period
specified by the Director in the Regulations. Certification as a CSB is
independent from certification as a
MBE or FBE.
(g) By fifteen days after the close
of each calendar quarter, the Director shall publish a list of all CSBs
certified during the preceding quarter, including the type(s) of work
that each is certified to perform,
and a list of all Business Enterprises that have lost their certification as a CSB during the preceding
quarter,
including
whether
an
appeal of the denial of certification
is pending. Concurrently, the Director shall furnish to the Council the
name of any Business Enterprise to
which OEO has denied certification
as a CSB during the preceding quarter, including whether an appeal of
the denial is pending.
Publication
of the CSB’s name shall not be a prerequisite
for
eligibility
for
the
award of a Contract.
Section 187.04 CSB Goals of Contracting Departments
(a) Consistent with the City’s goal
of increasing the level of CSB participation in Contracts, each Contracting Department shall use its
best efforts to utilize CSBs as Contractors and subcontractors for all
contracts in excess of $10,000. The
annual City-wide goal for CSB participation in Public Improvement
Contracts shall be thirty percent
(30%), in professional services Contracts shall be ten percent (10%),
and in all other Contracts shall be
twenty percent (20%) or such other
goal fixed by the Director for a particular Contract.
(b) To meet the goals fixed under
division (a) of this section, Contracting Departments, in consultation with the Director, shall consider use of Bid Discounts under division (b) and (d) of Section 187.03
when recommending a bid as lowest
and best or lowest responsible or
recommending a proposal as best.
Each Contracting Department shall
be responsible for ensuring that
invitations to bid or requests for
proposal issued by or for that
department comply with all provisions and procedures set forth in
this Chapter.
(c) In determining the CSB participation that shall be applied
toward meeting the goals fixed
under division (a) of this section,
the Director shall credit:
(1) Expenditures to CSBs that perform Commercially Useful Functions
in implementation or performance of
a Contract;
(2) Expenditures to CSB manufacturers (i.e. Suppliers that produce
goods from raw materials or the
product of raw materials and add
value by substantially altering them
before resale);
(3) Sixty percent (60%) of expenditures to CSB Suppliers that are not
manufacturers, provided that the
CSB Supplier performs a Commercially Useful Function in the supply
process;
(4) Should a CSB subcontractor
further subcontract its participation
in a Contract to a non-CSB subcon-

28
tractor, only the work or supplies
actually performed or furnished by
the CSB subcontractor shall be
applied towards meeting the goals
fixed under division (a) of this section;
(5) No credit shall apply for a
Contractor’s or a subcontractor’s
contract(s) for the purchase of
materials, equipment, services, or
supplies that are incident to the performance of services under the Contract or for the general operation of
its business and not attributable
exclusively to the particular subcontract; and
(6) A percentage of the total dollar value of the Contract with a CSB
Joint Venture equal to the percentage of CSB participation in the Joint
Venture shall be counted towards
meeting the goals fixed under division (a) of this section. If the CSB
is responsible for performance of a
clearly defined portion of the work
to be performed, equal in proportion
to its share in the ownership, control,
management,
responsibility,
risk, and profits of the Joint Venture.
(d) To fulfill the purposes of the
goals fixed under division (a) of
this section, Contractors shall use
CSBs to perform a Commercially
Useful Function during the implementation or performance of the
Contract. Failure to do so will be a
material breach of the Contract, and
may subject the Contractor to criminal prosecution, decertification, and
other sanctions.
(e) The Director shall not apply
credit toward the CSB subcontractor
participation goals fixed in division
(a) of this section for participation
under any Contract in a calendar
year by any CSB subcontractor that
has contracted more than a maximum annual dollar amount per CSB
fixed by the Director in the Regulations from time to time, except
that the Director may apply credit
toward the CSB subcontractor participation goals upon written request of a Bidder or Contractor
attesting that no other certified
CSBs are available to perform the
work
or
supply
the
materials
required for the Contract under
which the CSB is a subcontractor, or
in an emergency, or for such other
reasons that the Director determines
require use of that CSB. Nothing in
the foregoing shall be deemed to
prohibit a Contractor from subcontracting to that CSB, or that CSB
from performing work or supplying
materials under any Contract without participation credit.
Section 187.05
Certification of
Minority Business Enterprises and
Female Business Enterprises.
(a) A Business Enterprise is eligible for certification as a Minority
Business Enterprise if:
(1) the Business Enterprise is
owned, operated and controlled by
one or more Minority Persons who
have at least 51% ownership;
(2) the Minority Persons who own
the Business Enterprise have operational and managerial control, interest in capital, and earnings commensurate with the percentage of
ownership; and

The City Record
(3) the Business Enterprise is
located and doing business in the
Cleveland Contracting Market.
(b) A Business Enterprise is eligible for certification as a Female
Business Enterprise if:
(1) the Business Enterprise is
owned, operated and controlled by
one or more Females who have at
least 51% ownership;
(2) the Female owners have operational
and
managerial
control,
interest in capital, and earnings
commensurate with the percentage
of ownership; and
(3) the Business Enterprise is
located and doing business in the
Cleveland Contracting Market.
(c) Contracting Departments may
apply a Bid Discount of five percent
(5%) for bids received from certified MBE and FBE prime contractors, as the Regulations provide to
remediate past or present discrimination as provided in Section 187.28.
(d) Contracting Departments may
apply an Evaluation Credit of five
percent (5%) of the total points
awarded for proposals received from
MBE and FBE prime contractors, as
the Regulations provide to remediate past or present discrimination as
provided in Section 187.28.
(e) Contracting Departments may
apply a Bid Discount for bids
received for a Public Improvement
Contract from a Business Enterprise
in the amount of five percent (5%)
of the portion of the total amount of
the goods, labor, and materials that
the Bidder represents it will subcontract to one or more MBEs and
FBEs.
(1) If a Contracting Department
applies the Bid Discount under division (d) of this section to the bid of
a Bidder that would not have otherwise been the lowest and the Bidder is awarded the Public Improvement Contract, the City shall retain
as Additional Retainage an amount
equal to the total dollar amount by
which the bid was adjusted for bid
comparison in addition to the retainage
required
under
Section
185.41 of the Codified Ordinances.
(2) If a Contractor uses MBE and
FBE subcontractors in the performance of a Public Improvement Contract in an amount equal to or
greater than offered in the Contractor’s bid, the City shall pay the Contractor any Additional Retainage
retained under division (e)(1) of
this section upon the Contracting
Department director’s acceptance of
the contract work under division (d)
of Section 185.41. If a Contractor
uses MBE and FBE subcontractors
in the performance of a Public
Improvement Contract in an amount
less than represented in its bid, the
Contractor shall forfeit the amount
of Additional Retainage equal to the
amount of shortfall in its total MBE
and FBE usage, in addition to any
other sanctions or penalties applicable under this Chapter or the Contract.
(3) If a Contracting Department
applies the Bid Discount under division (e) of this section to a bid that
would not have otherwise been the
lowest and the Bidder is awarded
the Public Improvement Contract,
the Contract terms shall prohibit the

62

January 16, 2008
Contractor
from
deducting
the
amount of the Additional Retainage
from progress payments to the MBE
and FBE subcontractors.
(f) The maximum cumulative dollar amount of all Bid Discounts to
a Bidder for a bid under divisions
(c) and (e) of this section shall not
exceed $50,000.00.
(g) If a Contracting Department
applies a Bid Discount under divisions (c) or (e) of this section to
one or more bids for the award of a
Contract, no Bid Discounts may be
applied under divisions (b) or (d) of
Section 187.03 to any bid under
review for the award of that Contract. If a Contracting Department
applies an Evaluation Credit under
division (d) of this section to one or
more proposals for the award of a
Contract, no Evaluation Credits may
be applied under division (c) of Section 187.03 to any proposal under
review for the award of that Contract.
(h) Certificates issued under this
section shall be valid for the period
specified by the Director in the Regulations.
(i) By 15 days after the close of
each calendar quarter, the Director
shall publish a list of all MBEs and
FBEs certified during the preceding
quarter, including the type(s) of
work that each is certified to perform, and a list of all Business
Enterprises that have lost their certification as an MBE or FBE during
the preceding quarter, including
whether an appeal of the denial of
certification is pending. Concurrently, the Director shall furnish to the
Council the name of any Business
Enterprise to which OEO has denied
certification as an MBE or FBE during the preceding quarter, including
whether an appeal of the denial is
pending. Publication of the MBE’s
or FBE’s name shall not be a prerequisite
for
eligibility
for
the
award of a Contract.
Section 187.06 MBE/FBE Goals of
Contracting Departments
(a) Consistent with the City’s goal
of increasing the level of MBE and
FBE participation in City Contracts
when past or present discrimination
against such type of MBEs or FBEs
or category of contract has been evidenced as provided in Section 187.28,
each Contracting Department shall
use its best efforts to utilize certified MBEs and FBEs as Contractors
or subcontractors for all contracts in
excess of $10,000 where applicable.
The Director may determine the
appropriate annual City-wide goal
for MBE and FBE participation for
each type of Contract, including, but
not limited to, Construction, non-professional and professional services,
supplies, and concessions, and for
each type of work to be performed
under a particular Contract, based
on the availability of certified MBEs
and FBEs as to which past or present discrimination that has been
demonstrated as provided in Section
187.28. The Director shall cause the
goals to be published in the Regulations.
The Director shall fix the goals
for MBE and FBE participation in a
particular Contract in consultation

January 16, 2008
with the Contracting Department
based upon the annual City-wide
goals for each type of Contract and
for each type of work to be performed in the Contract and the
availability of certified MBEs and
FBEs. The Director may fix the
goals for a particular Contract at a
level exceeding the annual Citywide goals to assist a Contracting
Department in meeting the annual
City-wide goal for the particular
type of Contract to be awarded.
(b)
Contracting
Departments
shall
consider
use
of
certified
MBEs and FBEs when recommending a lowest and best or lowest
responsible bid to meet the specified annual goals and may apply a
Bid Discount for Bid Comparison
under division (c) of Section 187.05.
However,
these
goals
are
not
intended as quotas.
Each Contracting Department shall ensure
that bids or proposals emanating
from that department comply with
the procedures and provisions in
this Chapter and the Regulations.
(c) In evaluating the MBE and
FBE participation that shall apply
toward a Contracting Department’s
annual goals, the Director shall
credit:
(1)
Expenditures
to
certified
MBEs and FBEs that perform Commercially Useful Functions in implementation or performance of a Contract;
(2) Expenditures to certified MBE
and FBE manufacturers (i.e. Suppliers that produce goods from raw
materials or the product of raw
materials and add value by substantially
altering
them
before
resale);
(3) Sixty percent (60%) of expenditures to certified MBE and FBE
Suppliers that are not manufacturers, provided that the MBE and FBE
Supplier performs a Commercially
Useful
Function
in
the
supply
process;
(4) Should a MBE or FBE subcontractor further subcontract its
participation in a Contract to a nonMBE or non-FBE only the work
actually performed by the MBE or
FBE
subcontractor
shall
apply
towards the Contracting Department’s annual MBE or FBE participation goals;
(5) No credit shall apply to a Contractor’s or a subcontractor’s contract(s) for the purchase of materials, equipment, services, or supplies
that are incident to the performance
of services under the Contract or for
the general operation of its business
and not attributable exclusively to
the particular subcontract;
(6) A Contractor or subcontractor
that qualifies as both a MBE and
FBE may obtain certification as
both a MBE and FBE. The total dollar value of a particular Contract
with such Contractor or subcontractor may count only toward the MBE
or FBE goal, but not toward both.
The Contractor must choose the category to which the Contract value
should be applied; and
(7) A portion of the total dollar
value of the Contract with a CSB,
MBE, or FBE Joint Venture equal to
the percentage of certified CSB,
MBE, or FBE participation in the

The City Record
Joint Venture may count toward
meeting MBE and FBE goals. The
CSB, MBE, or FBE must be responsible for performance of a clearly
defined, distinct portion of the Contract work of equal proportion to its
share in the ownership, control,
management, responsibility, risk, and
profits of the Joint Venture.
(d) To fulfill the purposes of the
MBE and FBE goals, Contractors
shall use MBEs and FBEs to perform a Commercially Useful Function in implementation or performance of the Contract. Failure to do
so will not only be considered a
material breach of the Contract, but
may also subject the Contractor to
criminal prosecution for fraudulent
misrepresentation, decertification, and
to other sanctions.
(e) The Director shall not apply
credit toward the MBE and FBE
subcontractor
participation
goals
fixed under division (a) of this section for participation under any Contract in a calendar year by any one
MBE or FBE subcontractor that has
contracted more than a maximum
annual dollar amount per MBE or
FBE fixed by the Director in the
Regulations from time to time, except that the Director may apply
credit toward the MBE or FBE subcontractor participation goals upon
written request of a Bidder or Contractor attesting that no other certified MBEs or FBEs are available to
perform the work or supply the
materials required for the Contract
under which the MBE or FBE is a
subcontractor, or in an emergency,
or for such other reasons that the
Director determines require use of
that MBE or FBE. Nothing in the
foregoing shall be deemed to prohibit a Contractor from subcontracting to that MBE or FBE, or that
MBE or FBE from performing work
or supplying materials under any
Contract without participation credit.
(f) This section shall apply, as
remedial action, only to the specified types and categories of Contracts and the contracting for those
types and categories of Contracts,
for which the City has developed or
obtained, by disparity study or otherwise, a legally sufficient basis in
evidence to demonstrate past or present discrimination as to participation of Minority Persons, Females,
MBEs, or FBEs.
Section 187.07
Certification as a
Contract Prerequisite; Certification
Process
(a) Each Bidder must hold a valid
certificate of employment compliance for the equal employment of
minorities and women in the contractor’s workforce, as described in
division (b) of Section 187.16, unless
the Mayor has waived such compliance.
(b) Each Bidder whose bid includes participation by CSBs, MBEs,
or FBEs must demonstrate that the
Bidder:
(1) Has reached a specific written
agreement with each participating
CSB, MBE, or FBE subcontractor;
(2) Has accurately and fully represented the essence of their agreement in the bid documents; and

63

29
(3) Is using CSBs, MBEs, or FBEs
in a way which complies with this
Code and the Regulations.
If the Administrator has made a
finding of noncompliance by a Bidder under division (f)(3) of Section
187.17 and the Bidder disputes the
finding, the City may reject the bid
until such dispute is resolved.
(c) CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs must
be certified under division (d) of
this section. Contractors seeking to
use certified CSBs, MBEs, or FBEs
shall ensure that all forms and
related materials required for certification are submitted to the Director in a timely fashion.
(d) The Administrator may issue
a certificate of employment compliance under division (a) of this section, or a certificate for the following:
(1) Bona fide status as CSBs,
MBEs, or FBEs; and
(2) Bona fide status as a CSB,
MBE, or FBE Joint Venture.
Any certification under this section with regard to a professional
service Contractor under a Contract
entered into by the Director of Law
may be deferred at the discretion of
the Director of Law but shall occur
prior
to
making
final
payment
under the Contract.
Section 187.08
Good-Faith Effort
of Bidders and Contract Provisions
(a) Each Bidder for a Contract
shall make a good-faith effort to utilize certified CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs
in a percentage that equals or
exceeds the applicable goal.
(b) The City and each Contracting Department in soliciting bids
and approving, awarding, and administering a Contract exceeding or
reasonably anticipated to exceed the
Contract amount above which Charter Section 108 requires ordinance
authority shall comply with the following requirements:
(1) Each Bid invitation, request
for proposals and other solicitation
for a Contract shall require each
Bidder to complete and submit with
its bid or proposal the representations, documentation, and schedules
the Director specifies for the Bidder
to identify its efforts to utilize
CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs in a percentage that equals or exceeds the
applicable goal. The Bidder shall
keep such records of its efforts as
the Director specifies are adequate
to permit determination of a successful Bidder’s compliance with
this section.
(2) If a bid invitation or request
for proposals contains alternates,
the percentage of CSB, MBE and
FBE participation in the prospective
Contract will be computed upon the
total dollar amount of the Contract
as awarded, including the cost of
alternates
the
Contracting
Department recommends for award.
(3) If a Bidder is unable to
achieve the goal for CSB utilization
or MBE and FBE utilization for a
particular Contract, the Bidder may
request an exception to the goal
under division (a) of Section 187.13.
(4) Prior to execution of a Contract, a Bidder shall submit to the
City such additional documents as
the Director may specify to identify

30
the particular CSBs, MBEs, FBEs
and other subcontractors it will use
under the Contract, and to specify
the dollar and percentage value of
each subcontractor’s participation,
the type of work or services to be
performed, and such other information as the Director may reasonably
require to determine whether the
Bidder meets the applicable CSB,
MBE, and FBE participation goals.
(c) All Contracts shall require the
Contractor to:
(1) Use certified CSBs, MBEs, and
FBEs in performing the Contract
according to the participation identified in its bid or proposal, subject
only to any substitution and waiver
granted under division (b) of Section 187.08.
(2) Make a good-faith effort to
use CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs during
performance of the Contract.
(3) Maintain such records as the
Director requires that demonstrate
compliance with this Chapter’s and
the Contract’s requirements relating
to CSB, MBE, and FBE participation.
(4) Comply with all provisions of
this Chapter. Any failure of the Contractor or any subcontractor to comply with applicable provisions of
this Chapter shall constitute a material breach.
(5)
Whenever
a
Contract
is
amended or modified, any change
order is issued, or subsidiary agreement is authorized increasing the
total original Contract cost by more
than 10%, to comply with this Chapter regarding the work, services, or
supplies to be paid for through such
amendment,
modification,
change
order, or subsidiary agreement to
ensure that it maintains the same
percentage of CSB, MBE, and FBE
participation identified in its bid or
proposal in performing the additional work, services, or supplies.
(d) To be considered lowest and
best or lowest responsible, a Bidder
shall disclose with its bid or proposal such information as the Director requires in the Regulations to
demonstrate the extent to which, in
contracts not within the purview of
this Chapter, the Bidder has awarded subcontracts to CSBs, MBEs, and
FBEs.
Section 187.09
Contracts with
Other Governmental Entities as Contractors
Contracts or other agreements between the City and other political subdivisions, governmental, or quasi-governmental agencies, under which entities receive money from or through
the City for the purpose of contracting with Business Enterprises
to perform projects in the City, shall
encourage Business Enterprises to
comply with the provisions of this
Chapter in awarding, administering,
and implementing the contracts.
Section 187.10 CSB Joint Ventures
When a certified CSB Joint Venture participates in a Contract, the
CSB’s participation value will be
measured by first determining the
percentage of the CSB’s participation in the CSB Joint Venture, and
then multiplying that percentage by
the value of the CSB Joint Venture’s
participation in the Contract.

The City Record
Section 187.11
MBE/FBE Joint
Ventures
Participation of MBEs and FBEs
in Joint Ventures is encouraged.
When a certified MBE or FBE Joint
Venture participates in a Contract to
which MBE and or FBE goals apply,
the MBE’s or FBE’s participation
value will be measured by first
determining the percentage of the
MBE’s or FBE’s participation in the
MBE or FBE Joint Venture, and
then multiplying that percentage by
the value of the MBE or FBE Joint
Venture’s participation in the Contract.
Section 187.12 Responsibilities of
Contracting Departments
The Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies and each Contracting
Department shall:
(a) Make every effort to increase
the participation of CSBs, MBEs,
and FBEs in Contracts of $10,000 or
less;
(b) Develop lists of CSBs, MBEs,
and FBEs experienced in the various types of services, products, or
property for which the City typically contracts;
(c) Report to the Director quarterly not later than 30 calendar days
after the end of the previous quarter specifying, with respect to Contracts and subcontracts:
(1) The means by which it intends
to meet goals established under this
Chapter in the forthcoming quarter;
(2) The percentage and dollar
amount of those Contracts and subcontracts awarded in the previous
quarter to CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs;
(3) For each Contracting Department, the degree to which it has met
goals set forth in this Chapter, any
past and current activities undertaken and being undertaken to meet
such goals and, if applicable, a
detailed explanation of why it has
not met the goals; and
(4)
Other
information
as
the
Director may request; and
(d) Appoint one or more members
of each Contracting Department to
serve as a liaison between the Contracting Department and the OEO,
and to nominate a member of the
contracting department or division
to serve on the Review and Evaluation Committee provided under Section 187.23.
Section 187.13 Exceptions, Substitutions and Waivers
(a) If a Bidder is unable to meet
the goals for a Contract established
under division (a) of Section 187.04
for CSBs or division (a) of Section
187.06 for MBEs and FBEs, it may
submit a request for exception to
the Director prior to bid opening.
The request for exception shall
include such documentation as the
Director specifies in the Regulations
that demonstrates the Bidder’s goodfaith effort to use CSBs, MBEs, and
FBEs to achieve the applicable goal.
(b) If, after a Contract is awarded, a Contractor is unable to utilize
a CSB, MBE, or FBE identified in
the Contractor’s bid or proposal, it
shall make a good-faith effort to
identify and propose, and request
the Director’s approval of a substitute CSB, MBE, or FBE, respective-

64

January 16, 2008
ly, to fulfill its utilization commitment. If, after good-faith effort, the
Contractor is unable to find a substitute, it may request the Director
to waive its utilization commitment.
The request must document, as the
Director prescribes in the Regulations, both the Contractor’s goodfaith effort to find a substitute and
the reasons it is unable to meet the
goal.
(c) A Contracting Department
may request the Director to waive
or reduce the goal for CSB, MBE,
and FBE participation in a particular Contract by submitting the reasons for the request in writing prior
to soliciting bids or proposals.
(1) The Director may grant a
waiver or reduction upon determination that:
A. The reasonable and necessary
requirements of the Contract preclude subcontracting or participation of Business Enterprises other
than the Bidder or proposer; or
B. Based upon documentation submitted to the Director, sufficient
CSBs, MBEs, and/or FBEs, certified,
qualified and capable of providing
the goods or services the Contract
requires are unavailable despite
every practicable attempt to locate
and utilize them.
(2) In any grant of a goal reduction, the Director shall specify the
percentage to which the goal is
reduced.
(3) Whenever the Director denies
a request to waive or reduce a goal,
the Contracting Department may
appeal that denial to the Mayor
whose decision on the request shall
be final.
(d) A Contracting Department
may waive or reduce the goal established under division (a) of Section
187.04 for CSBs or division (a) of
Section 187.06 for MBEs and FBEs
for a particular Contract under the
following circumstances:
(1) Whenever the director of a
Contracting Department finds, with
the advice of the Director, that the
goods or services are available only
from a sole source, and the prospective Contractor is not currently disqualified from doing business with
the City; and
(2) If the director of a Contracting Department certifies in writing
to the Director that:
A. an emergency exists which
requires goods or services to be provided with such immediacy that it
is impracticable to comply with the
requirements of this Chapter; and
B. the prospective Contractor is a
CSB, MBE, or FBE, or if not, that
the
prospective
Contractor
will
make a good-faith effort to subcontract to CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs, as
applicable,
should
subcontracting
opportunities exist.
Section 187.14 Small Contract Rotation Program
(a) Provided that by disparity
study or otherwise there is a legally sufficient basis to employ a Small
Contract Rotation Program as a
remedy for past or present discrimination under Section 187.28, the
Director shall establish a Small Contract Rotation Program for MBEs
and FBEs, including procedures,

January 16, 2008
applicable to the categories of construction, professional services and
purchase contracts where the cost of
the Contract is anticipated to be
under $10,000. The purposes of the
Small Contract Rotation Program
are to increase opportunities for categories of MBEs and FBE, that have
been underutilized at a statistically
significant level in Contracts under
$10,000, and to provide an orderly
and efficient method of awarding
purchases and work and to equitably distribute purchases and work
among qualified Contractors.
(b) Under the Small Contract
Rotation Program, the City shall
limit every second (2nd) contract to
be let by the City for each type of
contract, within a category where
MBEs and FBEs are underutilized
at a statistically significant level, to
competition among certified MBEs
and FBEs who submit an application in a form acceptable to the
Director. The Director shall compile
an approved list for each industry
and, as needed, compile specialized
lists within industries. The eligible
businesses shall be alphabetically
ranked on each list and, for a thirty-day period commencing on January 1st and June 1st of each year,
the Director shall hold open enrollment for applicants.
The lists of
pre-qualified vendors shall be made
available to the public. The Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
shall solicit bids or proposals from
all MBEs or FBEs on the list for
each contract to be entered into
under the Small Contract Rotation
Program. When only one qualified
vendor is on the list, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
may purchase directly from that
firm by direct negotiation of the
purchase price.
Section 187.15
Employment; Nondiscrimination; Goals of Contractors
(a) No Contractor shall Discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of
race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, Disability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era
or disabled veteran status. Contractors shall take affirmative action to
ensure that applicants are employed
and that employees are treated during employment without regard to
race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, Disability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era
or disabled veteran status. As used
in this chapter, “treated” means and
includes without limitation the following: recruited whether by advertising or other means; compensated,
whether in the form of rates of pay
or other forms of compensation;
selected for training, including apprenticeship, promoted, upgraded,
demoted, transferred, laid off and
terminated. Contractors shall post in
conspicuous
places
available
to
employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by
the hiring representative of contractors setting forth the provisions
of this nondiscrimination clause.
(b) Within 60 days after entering
into a Contract, each Contractor
shall have filed with the Director a
written affirmative action program,

The City Record
approved by the Administrator, containing standards and procedures
ensuring that the Contractor, by
specified affirmative actions with
regard to its employees, facilities
and performance of the Contract,
affords all qualified employees and
applicants for employment equal
opportunities in the Contractor’s
recruitment, selection, and advancement processes.
(c) Each Contractor’s affirmative
action program shall contain the following components:
(1) A diagnostic component that
includes quantitative analyses comparing the composition of the Contractor’s workforce to the composition of the Cleveland Contracting
Market employment pool according
to the most current census data
available, grouped by EEO occupations.
(2) Each affirmative action program shall contain placement goals
as follows:
(i) for each non-construction Contract, placement goals equal to the
availability percentage for women
or minorities where the percentage
of women or minorities employed by
the Contractor in a particular job
group is less than would reasonably
be expected given their percentage
availabilities in the corresponding
Cleveland Contracting Market employment pool. Placement goals are
objective targets reasonably attainable by applying a good-faith effort
to implement all aspects of the affirmative action program; they are not
inflexible quotas. Placement goals
do not authorize or require a Contractor to grant a preference to any
individual or adversely affect an
individual’s employment status for
an unlawful discriminatory reason.
(ii) for each construction Contract, establish placement goals for
minorities and women for each trade
involved in the performance of the
Contract equal to the goals established by the Director. Placement
goals are objective targets reasonably attainable by applying a goodfaith effort to implement all aspects
of the affirmative action program;
they
are
not
inflexible
quotas.
Placement goals do not authorize or
require a Contractor to grant a preference to any individual or adversely affect an individual’s employment
status for an unlawful Discriminatory reason.
(3)
Identification
of
problem
areas through analysis of the Contractor’s
employment
process
to
determine if it affords or incorporates, or contains impediments to,
equal employment opportunities.
(4) Action-oriented programs consisting of practical steps the Contractor will implement to address
any identified problem areas or the
underutilization of women or minorities in relation to their availability
in the relevant labor pool.
(5) Internal auditing and reporting systems that monitor and examine the impact the Contractor’s
employment decisions and compensation systems have on women and
minorities and their progress toward
achieving a workforce that would
be expected in the absence of discrimination.

65

31
(6) Policies, practices, and procedures that the Contractor will implement to ensure that all qualified
applicants
and
employees
enjoy
equal opportunity in recruitment,
selection, advancement, and every
other term and privilege associated
with employment.
(7) Any additional requirements
the
Administrator
may
require
through the Regulations or on a
case-by-case review of a Contractor’s
proposed
affirmative
action
program.
Section 187.16
Compliance with
Employment Goals
(a) Each Contractor shall be eligible for a certificate of employment
compliance required under Section
187.07 when the Administrator, from
the required submittals and other
information supplied by the Contractor, determines that the Contractor is complying with this Code
and the Regulations.
(b) Each Contractor shall submit
to the Administrator and implement
a written affirmative action program containing the components
required under division (c) of Section 187.15. When the Administrator
is satisfied that the Contractor has
complied with the Code and its regulations, the Administrator shall
issue a written “certificate of employment compliance.”
(c) Immediately upon a finding
that 60 days of entering into a Contract, a Contractor has no affirmative action program, has deviated
substantially from an approved affirmative action program, or has
Discriminated against any employee
or applicant for employment because of race, religion, color, sex,
sexual orientation, national origin,
age, Disability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era or disabled veteran status,
the
Administrator
shall
proceed
according to division (f) of Section
187.17. Anything in the foregoing to
the contrary notwithstanding, the
Director shall not impose sanctions
or remedial action against a Contractor solely because the Contractor fails to achieve the established
placement goals.
(d) By notice in writing to the
Director and the Clerk of Council,
the Mayor may waive compliance
with the employment goals established under division (c) of Section
187.15 with respect to a specific Contractor seeking the award of a specific Contract when, in the Mayor’s
sole judgment, the action is necessary in the best interests of the City
and its citizens.
Section 187.17
Compliance Monitoring
(a) The Director, through the
Administrator, shall monitor a Contractor’s
compliance
with
the
requirements of this Chapter during
the term of a Contract. If the Director determines that there is cause to
believe that a Contractor or a subcontractor has failed to comply with
any applicable requirements of this
Chapter or the Contract provisions
pertaining to CSB, MBE, or FBE
participation,
the
Administrator
shall notify the Contractor as provided in division (f) of this section.

32
The provisions of divisions (f), (g)
and (h) of this section, Section
187.18, and Section 187.20 shall apply
to the review and appeal of this
determination by the Administrator.
(b) The Director and the Administrator may require such reports,
information and documentation from
Contractors,
Bidders,
Contracting
Departments, and the head of any
City department, division, or office,
as reasonably necessary to determine compliance with requirements
of this Chapter and any Contract
provisions regarding CSB, MBE and
FBE participation, as applicable.
(c) Contracting Departments shall
maintain accurate records for each
Contract awarded, including dollar
value, the nature of the goods and
services to be provided, the name of
the Contractor, the efforts it employed to solicit bids from CSBs,
MBEs, and FBEs, and all subcontracts awarded by the Contractor,
including dollar value, the nature of
the goods or services provided, and
the name of each subcontractor.
(d) If the Administrator finds that
a Contractor is not in compliance
with the applicable provisions of
this Code or is in default with
respect to any representation made
by the Contractor regarding applicable provisions of this Code and
upon which a certificate or approval
was
awarded,
then
the
Administrator may rescind or withdraw the relevant certificate or approval may be withdrawn prior to
its expiration. All certificates must
be renewed on forms provided by
the OEO.
(e) Any person having knowledge
of facts tending to show that a Contractor has obtained or is seeking
certifications or approval by false or
inaccurate representations to the
OEO may initiate the administrative
procedures set forth in this section,
Section 187.18 and Section 187.20. For
purposes of these sections, each Contractor must maintain its current
address(es) and those of its subcontractors with the Administrator;
the City’s mailing of any notice to
a Contractor by regular mail to the
filed address shall constitute the
required notice.
(f) If the Administrator has reason to believe that a Contractor is
in default with respect to any representation by the Contractor regarding applicable provisions of this
Code and its regulations, and on
which a certification or Contract
was awarded, the Administrator
shall:
(1) Send the Contractor written
notice by certified mail or personal
delivery of any apparent noncompliance with applicable terms of the
Code;
(2) Give the Contractor 10 days
from receipt of the notice, or other
specified reasonable opportunity to
submit records or offer other information in support of its continued
certification and compliance with
the provisions of the Code. The Administrator may consider the Contractor’s failure to submit records or
other information timely, or promptly when requested by the Administrator, as agreement to the conditions and circumstances of the non-

The City Record
compliance specified in the Administrator’s notice to the Contractor;
and
(3) If, after reviewing the information submitted under division
(f)(2) of this section, the Administrator determines that the Contractor is not in compliance with the
Code, then the Administrator shall
issue a written finding of noncompliance or default, stating the basis
for that finding and notifying the
Contractor of its right to object to
the finding.
(g) Any Contractor taking exception to a finding of the Administrator may attempt to reconcile the differences through informal methods
of
conciliation
and
persuasion
and/or file a written objection, with
reasons for the objection, with the
Administrator
by
certified
mail
within ten days of mailing after the
Administrator’s written finding. The
Administrator may recommend a settlement agreement regarding the
finding. If a written objection is
filed, the Administrator shall forward the objection to the Director,
within five days of its receipt along
with all materials relating to the
determination which is being appealed, together with any recommendations of appropriate remedial
action to be taken. The provisions
of Section 187.18 will then apply.
(h) If the Administrator finds a
Contractor is in default with respect
to any representation by the Contractor
regarding
applicable
provisions of this Code and the Regulations on which a certificate was
issued or a Contract was awarded,
and
if
the
Contractor
fails
to
attempt reconciliation under division (g) of this section within ten
days after mailing of the written
finding,
the
Administrator
shall
forthwith forward his findings to
the Director along with a recommendation of appropriate remedial
action to be taken or sanctions to
be imposed. The Director shall then,
based solely on the findings of the
Administrator, decide whether or
not noncompliance exists and shall
take such actions set forth in division (a) of Section 187.20 as are
applicable and consistent with the
decision.
Section 187.18 Hearing Procedure
If the Contractor files a timely
objection, as provided in division
(g) of Section 187.17, to a written
finding by the Administrator, the
Director shall hold a hearing on the
matter of the objection. The hearing
shall be held not less than five days
nor more than ten days from the filing, unless the Contractor and the
Director otherwise mutually agree.
The Director shall send notice of the
date, time and place for hearing by
mail to all interested parties. The
Contractor shall have the right to
record the proceedings of the hearing at the sole expense of the Contractor.
Section 187.19 Subpoena Power
(a) In any investigation relating
to compliance by Contractors or
Business Enterprises with the this
Code, the Regulations and any Contract provisions concerning CSB,

66

January 16, 2008
MBE, or FBE participation, or in
any hearing held under Section
187.18 relating to a Contractor’s compliance with the City’s requirements,
the Administrator or the Director
may issue in writing and cause to
be served a subpoena requiring the
following:
(1) The production of any records
or other things relevant to the investigation; and
(2) Relevant testimony.
(b) Any subpoena issued under
division (a) of this section is subject to the same limitations as
would apply if the subpoenas were
issued or served in aid of a civil
action in a court of common pleas.
(c) In case of refusal to obey a
subpoena issued by the Administrator or the Director, the Director of
Law may petition for its enforcement in the court of common pleas
in the county in which the Person
to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or
transacts business.
Section 187.20 Decision and Available Sanctions for Noncompliance
(a) Within five days after the
hearing required by Section 187.18,
the Director shall issue and send by
certified mail to the Contractor,
findings of fact and a determination
of
compliance
or
noncompliance
with the Code, the Regulations and
any Contract provisions concerning
CSB, MBE, or FBE participation. If
the Director determines that the
Contractor is in compliance with the
applicable provisions of the Code,
the Director shall issue an appropriate certificate. If the Director
determines that the Contractor is in
default with respect to any representation upon which it was awarded a certificate or contract or that
the Contractor is not in compliance
with the applicable provisions of the
Code, the Regulations and any Contract provisions concerning CSB,
MBE, or FBE participation, the
Director, in addition to other remedies available with respect to the
foregoing and other defaults under
any Contract in question, may take
any of the following actions:
(1) Cancel any existing certificate
of employment compliance or withhold issuance of a certificate of
employment compliance until the
Contractor cures the default or is in
full compliance with the applicable
provisions of the Code, the Regulations and any Contract provisions
concerning CSB, MBE, or FBE participation;
(2) Recommend that the City
withhold all or part of any payments due such Contractor until
such time as the Contractor cures
the default or is in full compliance
with the applicable provisions of the
Code, its regulations and any Contract provisions concerning CSB,
MBE, or FBE participation;
(3) Recommend that the City cancel the Contract and declare a forfeiture of any performance bond;
(4) Recommend that the Director
of Law take such legal action,
whether civil or criminal, as he
deems appropriate;
(5) Recommend rescission of the
Contract based upon a material

January 16, 2008
breach of the Contract pertaining to
CSB, MBE or FBE participation;
(6) Recommend disqualification of
a Bidder, Contractor, or other Business Enterprise from eligibility for
providing goods or services to the
City for a period not to exceed two
(2) years; or
(7) Recommend payment of damages, including any liquidated damages specified in the Contract.
(b) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, if the
Director determines after an investigative hearing that the City has
contracted with a Front Organization and/or that a Contractor has
participated with a CSB, FBE, or
MBE Contractor in activities that
would create a Front Organization,
then the Director shall:
(1) Decertify the Contractor and
and/or Front Organization;
(2) Not permit the Contractor
and/or Front Organization to be certified for a period of not less than
one (1) year after a final determination; and
(3) Refer the matter to the City
Prosecutor’s office for appropriate
action.
(c) The decision of the Director is
final and may be appealed to the
Board of Zoning Appeals, whose
decision, in turn, may be reviewed
by the Common Pleas Court under
Chapter 2506 of the Revised Code, or
as otherwise provided by law.
Section 187.21 Notices Required in
Advertisement for Bids
(a) If the Director is unable to
demonstrate
a
legally
sufficient
basis in evidence of past or present
discrimination against MBEs and
FBEs as provided in Section 187.28,
the Director shall cause the following notice to be included in advertisements for invitations to bid and
in requests for proposals: “Under the
Cleveland Area Business Code, each
Cleveland
Area
Small
Business
(“CSB”) must be certified by the
City’s OEO before the CSB may contract with the City. Therefore, any
prime Contractor wishing to receive
credit for making a good-faith effort
to use a CSB shall submit applications for certification as to CSB status,
compliance
with
the
Code,
employment
compliance
and,
if
applicable, joint venture status, to
the City’s OEO prior to the date of
bid opening or submission of proposals or as specified by regulations. Failure to comply with the
Cleveland Area Business Code or
with representations made on these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”
(b) If the Director is able to
demonstrate
a
legally
sufficient
basis in evidence of past or present
discrimination against MBEs and
FBEs as provided in Section 187.28,
the Director shall cause the following notice to be included in advertisements for invitations to bid and
in requests for proposals: “Under the
Cleveland Area Business Code, each
Cleveland
Area
Small
Business
(“CSB”), Minority Business Enterprise (“MBE”) and/or Female Business Enterprise (“FBE”) must be
certified by the City’s Office of

The City Record
Equal Opportunity before contracting with the City. Therefore, any
prime Contractor wishing to receive
credit for making a good-faith effort
to use a CSB, MBE and/or FBE
shall submit applications for certification as to CSB, MBE and/or FBE
status, compliance with the Code,
affirmative action in employment
and, if applicable, joint venture status, to the City’s Office of Equal
Opportunity prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by regulations. Failure to comply with the Cleveland
Area Business Code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”
Section 187.22 Equal Opportunity
Clause; Terms in Contracts
(a) Contracting Departments shall
include the notice(s) set forth in
Section 187.21 and the requirements
set forth in division (c) of Section
187.08 in all specifications for contracts. The Director shall consider
satisfaction of the duties and agreements set forth in the notice in
determining whether a Contractor is
in compliance with this Code.
(b) Each Contract also shall contain the following equal opportunity clause:
“During the performance of this
contract, the contractor agrees as
follows:
(1) The contractor shall not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of
race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, disability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era
or disabled veteran status. The contractor shall take affirmative action
to
insure
that
applicants
are
employed and that employees are
treated during employment without
regard to race, religion, color, sex,
sexual orientation, national origin,
age, disability, ethnic group, or Vietnam-era or disabled veteran status.
As used in this chapter, “treated”
means and includes without limitation
the
following:
recruited,
whether by advertising or other
means; compensated, whether in the
form of rates of pay or other forms
of compensation; selected for training, including apprenticeship, promoted, upgraded, demoted, downgraded, transferred, laid off and
terminated. The contractor agrees to
and shall post in conspicuous places,
available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be
provided by the hiring representatives of the contractor setting forth
the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.
(2) The contractor will, in all
solicitations or advertisements for
employees placed by or on behalf of
the contractor, state that the contractor is an equal opportunity
employer.
(3) The contractor shall send to
each labor union or representative
of workers with which he has a collective bargaining agreement or
other contract, or understanding, a
notice advising the labor union or
worker’s representative of the contractor’s commitments under the
equal opportunity clause, and shall

67

33
post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees
and applicants for employment.
(4) It is the policy of the City that
local
businesses,
minority-owned
businesses and female-owned businesses shall have every practicable
opportunity to participate in the performance of contracts awarded by
the City subject to the applicable
provisions of the City’s Cleveland
Area Business Code.
(5) The contractor shall permit
access by the Director or his or her
designated representative to any
relevant and pertinent reports and
documents
to
verify
compliance
with the City’s Cleveland Area
Business Code, and with the Regulations. All such materials provided
to the Director or designee by the
contractor shall be considered confidential.
(6) The contractor will not obstruct or hinder the Director or
designee in the fulfillment of the
duties and responsibilities imposed
by the City’s Cleveland Area Business Code.
(7) The contractor agrees that
each subcontract will include this
Equal Opportunity Clause, and the
contractor will notify each subcontractor, materialman and supplier
that the subcontractor must agree to
comply with and be subject to all
applicable provisions of the City’s
Cleveland Area Business Code. The
contractor shall take any appropriate action with respect to any subcontractor as a means of enforcing
the provisions of the Code.”
Section 187.23
Review and Evaluation Committee
The Director shall serve as chairperson of a Review and Evaluation
Committee comprised of at least one
member
from
each
Contracting
Department, one liaison from the
Division of Purchases and Supplies,
and one member of Council or its
representative nominated by the
President of Council. Except for the
member nominated by the President
of Council, the members may be
appointed by the Mayor from among
nominees presented to him by the
Contracting Departments and shall
serve at the discretion of the Mayor.
The Committee shall meet as is necessary
to
fulfill
the
following
responsibilities:
(a) Review and monitor each Contracting Department’s performance
under the Cleveland Area Business
Program;
(b) Assist the Director in preparing annual reports to the Mayor on
the progress of the Cleveland Area
Business Program;
(c) Recommend changes in the
regulations promulgated under this
Code;
(d) Assist, as appropriate, in the
implementation of this Code;
(e) Prepare, review and make recommendations concerning the directory of certified CSBs, MBEs and
FBEs;
(f) Assist in preparing a Business
Enterprise monthly awards report;
and
(g) Carry out such other oversight
or coordination functions as may be
requested by the Director.

34
Section 187.24 Reports
(a) If a construction contract is
estimated to take more than 90 days
to complete or calls for the City to
expend $500,000 or more, each Contractor and subcontractor shall submit project site reports to the
Administrator which shall contain
such information as the Administrator may require. Reports shall be
submitted to the Administrator at
least every 90 days, or as sooner
requested by the Administrator
(b) Failure to submit any required report constitutes a violation
of this Code for which sanctions
may be imposed under this Chapter.
Section 187.25 Violations; Disqualification; Penalty
(a) No Person shall:
(1) willfully obstruct, impede, or
attempt to obstruct or impede any
authorized official or employee who
is investigating the qualifications of
a Business Enterprise that has
requested certification as a CSB,
MBE or FBE;
(2) fraudulently obtain, retain,
attempt to obtain or retain, or aid
another in fraudulently obtaining or
retaining, or attempting to obtain or
retain certification as a CSB, MBE
or FBE for purposes of this Chapter;
(3) falsely state to any Person
that any other is or is not certified
as a CSB, MBE or FBE for purposes of this Chapter;
(4) willfully falsify, conceal or
cover up by a trick, scheme, or
device a material fact, or make any
false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations or make
use of any false writing or document knowing the same to contain
any false, fictitious, or fraudulent
statement or entry in any matter
administered under this Chapter; or
(5) fraudulently obtain, attempt to
obtain, or aid another Person fraudulently obtaining or attempting to
obtain, public monies to which the
Person is not entitled under this
Chapter.
(b) Any Person who violates the
provisions of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
Section 187.26
Training Courses
and Development Activities
(a) The Director is authorized to
conduct the James H. Walker Construction
Management
Training
Course up to twice annually, to conduct other training and facilitate
and coordinate development activities authorized by and consistent
with Section 123.08, and to fix and
collect registration fees from training seminar or development activity
participants.
(b) The Director is authorized to
make purchases and enter into one
or more agreements under the Charter and relevant Codified Ordinances
for training and development materials, supplies, refreshments, graduation dinners, and, if necessary,
rental of a site for a course or activity.
(c) The Director shall deposit the
registration fees collected from participants in the training courses or
development activities into OEO’s

The City Record
Educational Program Account. All
expenditures made under this section shall be paid from registration
fees collected, which are appropriated for these purposes, and from
funds appropriated for the use of
the OEO.
Section 187.27 Severability
Each section and each part of
each section of this Cleveland Area
Business Code is an independent
section or part of a section, and
notwithstanding any other evidence
of legislative intent, it is the controlling legislative intent that if any
section or part of a section or any
provision, or the application of it to
any person or circumstances, is held
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of the provision to any other person
or circumstances, other than those
as to which it is held invalid, shall
not be affected. It is further the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Code would have been
adopted independently of the section
or parts of a section which are held
invalid.
Section 187.28
Applicability of
this Code to MBEs and FBEs
When the City has developed or
obtained, by disparity study or otherwise, a legally sufficient basis in
evidence to demonstrate past or present discrimination as to participation of MBEs, or FBEs in specific
types and categories of Contracts
and contracting, the City may, as
remedial action with respect to the
discrimination to the extent necessary, apply the provisions of this
Chapter 187 to the use of MBEs and
FBEs in Contracts as specified in
the evidence.
Section 187.29
Professional Consultants
The Director is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts professional consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly
employed staff of the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to develop or
obtain a disparity study or other
documentation to determine whether
their exists a legally sufficient
basis in evidence to demonstrate
past or present discrimination as to
participation of MBEs, or FBEs in
specific types and categories of Contracts. The selection of the consultants shall be made by the Board of
Control on the nomination of the
Director. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control and shall be
paid from the fund or funds deemed
appropriate
by
the
Director
of
Finance and that are appropriated
for this purpose.
Section 4. That, effective one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the passage date of this ordinance,
the following existing of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976:
Section 187.01, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1029-03, passed June
10, 2003,
Section 187.02, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1986,

68

January 16, 2008
Section 187.03, as amended by
Ordinance No. 792-03, passed June 10,
2003,
Section 187.031, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed June
15, 1992,
Section 187.032, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 796-03, passed June 10,
2003,
Section 187.04, as amended by
Ordinance No. 77-94, passed March
14, 1994,
Section 187.05, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1986,
Section 187.06, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed June
15, 1992,
Section 187.07, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1986,
Sections 187.08 and 187.081, as
enacted and amended by Ordinance
No. 791-03, passed June 10, 2003,
Section 187.09, as amended by ordinance No. 1029-03, passed June 10,
2003,
Section 187.10, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1986,
Section 187.11, as amended by
Ordinance No. 77-94, passed March
14, 1994,
Sections 187.12 and 187.13, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85,
passed February 10, 1986,
Section 187.131, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed June
15, 1992,
Section 187.132, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 795-03, passed June 10,
2003,
Section 187.14, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1992; and
Section 187.15, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed June
15, 1992; and
Section 187.16, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2013-06, passed June 11,
2007,
are repealed.
Section 5. That, notwithstanding
any other provision of this ordinance to the contrary and in furtherance of an orderly transition
from administration of the Minority Business and Female Business
Enterprise Code to the Cleveland
Area Business Code, any business
enterprise that holds a valid certificate as a minority business
enterprise or a female business
enterprise from the City’s OEO and
is located and doing business in
Cuyahoga County on the effective
date of this ordinance shall be
deemed to be a Cleveland Area
Small Business (CSB) for purposes
of the Cleveland Area Business
Code until the earlier of the Director granting or denying the business enterprise’s application for
certification as a CSB or the expiration of eighteen (18) months
from the effective date of this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Office of
Equal Opportunity, Finance, Law;
Committees on Employment Affirmative Action and Training, Legislation, Finance.

January 16, 2008
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 60-08.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 4 of Ordinance
No. 1280-06, passed October 2, 2006,
relating to the public improvement
of abating asbestos, demolishing the
remaining structures and concrete
pad at the former Midland Steel
property located at 10615 Madison
Avenue, and environmental remediation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 4 of Ordinance No. 1280-06,
passed October 2, 2006, are amended
to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public
improvement
of
abating
asbestos, demolishing the remaining
structures and concrete pad at the
former Midland Steel property located at 10615 Madison Avenue, and
environmental remediation; authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts
for the making of the improvement;
authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more amendments to
Contract No. 63915 with URS Corporation – Ohio for technical assistance, environmental oversight, and
any other services necessary to
implement the public improvement;
and authorizing the Director to
apply for and accept a Clean Ohio
grant from the State of Ohio Department of Development for the improvement.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into one or more
amendments to Contract No. 63915
with URS Corporation - Ohio to provide technical support, environmental oversight, and any other services
that the Director of Economic Development deems necessary for the City
to implement the public improvement, and to perform environmental
remediation in accordance with applicable regulations at the site after
asbestos removal and demolition
occur.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 4 of Ordinance No. 128006, passed October 2, 2006, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 68-08.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to accept a gift
of playground equipment, including
installation, from Westown Community Development Corporation and/or
KaBoom for improvements to Halloran Park.
Whereas, Westown Community Development Corporation and/or KaBoom has indicated a desire to make
a gift of playground equipment, including installation, at Halloran Park,
valued at approximately $25,000; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to accept the gift of playground equipment, including installation,
valued
at
approximately
$25,000, from Westown Community
Development
Corporation
and/or
KaBoom for improvements to Halloran Park.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 70-08.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Properties
and Recreation to enter into an
agreement with the Young Men’s
Christian Association of Cleveland
Ohio, Inc. for a Playground Improvement Project through the use of
Ward 21 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Director of Parks, Properties and
Recreation is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the Young
Men’s
Christian
Association
of
Cleveland Ohio, Inc., for a playground improvement project for the
West Park YMCA located at 15501
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44111 for the public purpose of providing recreational activities for
youth residing in the city of Cleveland through the use of Ward 21
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $4,700 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions

69

35
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 76-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 20th Annual The
Plain Dealer Walk for Hunger, on
May 10, 2008, to benefit the Hunger
Network of Greater Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 20th Annual The
Plain Dealer Walk for Hunger, to
benefit the Hunger Network of
Greater Cleveland, on May 10, 2008,
with the Walk beginning at Burke
Lakefront Airport and progressing
to Erieside, around the Browns Stadium, south on West 3rd, west on St.
Clair, south on West 9th to Superior, east on Superior to Ontario, south
on Ontario to Huron, east on Huron
to Erie, east on Erie to East 9th,
north on East 9th to Superior, west
on Superior to Mall, cross through
Mall to Lakeside, east on Lakeside
to East 9th, north on East 9th to
North Coast Harbor to the finish
line, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

36
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 71-08.
By Council Members Conwell, Santiago, Coats, White, Polensek, Brady,
Turner, Lewis, Cummins, Zone, Cleveland, Keane, Westbrook and Scott.
An emergency resolution encouraging the City’s Department of Public Health to apply for a grant from
the Ohio Commission on Minority
Health to help support the creation
of a Local Office of Minority Health
in the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, for twenty years, it has
been recognized that there is a disparity between the health status of
minority and non-minority Ohioans;
and
Whereas, in 1987, the Governor’s
Task Force on Black and Minority
Health (“Task Force”) was appointed to determine the reasons why
there is such a disparity; and
Whereas, the Task Force established a Commission on Minority
Health (“Commission”) to implement
Task Force recommendations; and
Whereas, the Commission is interested in funding projects that are
innovative, culturally sensitive and
specific in their approach toward
reduction of the incidence and severity of diseases or conditions which
are responsible for excess morbidity
and mortality in minority populations; and
Whereas, the Commission targets
economically disadvantaged blacks,
Hispanics, Native American Indians
and Asians; and
Whereas,
the
Commission
has
announced the availability of funds
from the Health Priorities Trust
Fund to support planning grants for
the creation of Local Offices of
Minority Health;
Whereas, the minority populations
in the City of Cleveland would be
greatly served by the establishment
of a Local Office of Minority Health
by the City’s Health Department;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby encourages the City of Cleveland’s Department of Public Health
to apply for a grant from the Ohio
Commission on Minority Health to
help support the creation of a Local
Office of Minority Health in the City
of Cleveland.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 72-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit at 1204 Old River Road, mezzanine and patio, and repealing Resolution No. 1135-07, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 1204 Old River Road, mezzanine and patio by Resolution No.
1135-07 adopted by the Council on
July 11, 2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
to Kaos in the Flats, Inc., 1204 Old
River Road, mezzanine and patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 4462671 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1135-07, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 73-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2, C2X, D1, D2 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 5803 and 5813 Outwaite
Avenue, and repealing Resolution
No. 1313-07, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2, C2X, D1, D2 and D6 Liquor
Permit to 5803 and 5813 Outwaite
Avenue by Resolution No. 1313-07
adopted by the Council on August 8,
2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2,
C2X, D1, D2 and D6 Liquor Permit
to Sylvia Foxworth, DBA Johnnie’s
South of the Border, 5803 Outwaite
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Per-

70

January 16, 2008
manent Number 2861706-0005 and
Sylvia Foxworth, DBA MJC, 5813
Outwaite Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 2861706 be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Resolution No. 1313-07, containing such objection, be and the same
is hereby repealed and that this
Council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 74-08.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit at 1503 Spring
Road, and repealing Resolution No.
1323-07, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 Liquor Permit to 1503 Spring
Road by Resolution No. 1323-07
adopted by the Council on August 8,
2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to Koubba, Inc, 1503
Spring Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permanent Number 4814048 be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1323-07, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 75-08.
By Council Members Santiago and
Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objection
to the transfer of a liquor license of
a D2, D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor
Permit to 1871 West 25th Street.

January 16, 2008
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of liquor license of a D2,
D2X, D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit
from 1057, Inc., DBA Hush, 1059 Old
River Road, 2nd floor, 1st floor and
2nd floor NW, 1057 Old River Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 6549262 to 1057, Inc., DBA
Hush Nightclub, 1871 West 25th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 65492620001; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of liquor license of a D2, D2X,
D3, D3A and D6 Liquor Permit from
1057, Inc., DBA Hush, 1059 Old River
Road, 2nd floor, 1st floor and 2nd
floor NW, 1057 Old River Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 6549262 to 1057, Inc., DBA
Hush Nightclub, 1871 West 25th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 65492620001, and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency

The City Record
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 78-08.
By Council Members Zone, Westbrook, Coats and Cummings.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio House of Representatives,
Public Utilities Committee to maintain critical safeguards in its consideration of Sub. Senate Bill 221 to
ensure rates will be fair, reasonable
and stable for the entire state well
into the future.
Whereas, Cleveland and Cuyahoga
County residents and businesses are
challenged daily with uncertain economic conditions and rising energy
costs; and
Whereas, at Governor Strickland’s
request, the Ohio General Assembly
is considering Sub. S.B. 221 which
would restructure Ohio’s electric
industry to return to a form of
monopoly regulation, and
Whereas,
additional
electricity
costs saddled on Cleveland ratepayers will have a deleterious effect on
Cleveland’s economy and the wellbeing of residential consumers and
small businesses alike; and
Whereas, that this Council endorses legislation that promotes the
development of a renewable energy
portfolio, energy efficiency, demand
response and other sustainable energy policies to be developed most
efficiently in a free-market system;
and
Whereas, utility companies should
be required to file at the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio both the
Electric Security Plan and the Market Rate Option every three years
and the comparison of the two plans
will allow the Commission to chose
the least cost plan for consumers in
each utility’s service territory; and
Whereas, language needs to be
added to the bill to clarify the automatic adjustments in rates due to a
utility’s expenses for environmental,
fuel, maintenance and investment in
generation facilities does not occur
with proper hearings to be established; and
Whereas, consumers need to help
lower the demand for electricity,
programs need to be established by
the utility companies to help consumers in making good educated
choices when it comes to energy
conservation with renewable energy
sources needing to be utilized now
to help stabilize prices in the future;
and
Whereas, renewable and energy
efficiency standard benchmarks need
to be established to ensure compliance from the utilities between now
and 2025 with enforcement of these
standards, appropriate penalties if
the utilities fail to comply; and

71

37
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
does not support language in Substitute Bill 221, Section 4928(b)(2)
which would allow utilities to avoid
the 25% Advanced Energy Portfolio
Standard by 2025 if the cost of
advanced energy is greater than 3%
of the cost of non-advanced energy;
and
Whereas, Cleveland City Council
has twice previously supported the
Governors Energy Plan by passage
of Resolution No. 1661-07, passed
October 8, 2007 and Resolution No.
1987-07, passed December 3, 2007; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Ohio House of Representatives,
Public Utilities Committee to maintain critical safeguards in its consideration of Sub. Senate Bill 221 to
ensure rates will be fair, reasonable
and stable for the entire state well
into the future.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Ted
Strickland, the Governor of the State
of Ohio, John Husted, the Speaker
of the House, Bill Harris, the President of the Senate, John Hagan,
Chair of the Ohio House Public Utilities Committee, all Ohio House
members of the Ohio House Public
Utilities Committee, Frank G. Jackson, Mayor, City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
21. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 21.
Nays 0.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:42 p.m. to meet on Monday, January 28, 2008, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

The City Record

38
BOARD OF CONTROL

January 9, 2008
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, January 9,
2008, at 10:30 a.m. with Director
Triozzi presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Pesti,
Directors
Fumich,
Guzman
and
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Debra
Linn
Talley,
Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 16-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Whereas, under Board of Control
Resolution No. 362-06, adopted on
August 16, 2006, amending Resolution No. 271-06, adopted July 5, 2006,
the City of Cleveland entered into
City Contract No. 65802 with Perfecturf, Inc. for an estimated quantity
of labor and materials necessary to
repair tree lawns and landscaping
services, all items, for the Divisions
of Water and Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities;
and
Whereas, the Director of Public
Utilities desires to cancel City Contract No. 65802 under Paragraph B10 of the General Conditions of such
contract for the reason that cancellation is in the best interest of the
City; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
this Board determines to cancel City
Contract No. 65802 with Perfecturf,
Inc., effective upon 15 days’ written
notice to the contractor.
Yeas: None.
Nays: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Pesti,
Directors
Fumich,
Guzman
and
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 17-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Whereas, Resolution No. 622-07
adopted November 21, 2007, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 89007, passed July 11, 2007, approved
the firm of RNR Consulting (“Consultant”) for professional inventory
management and control services
necessary to assess inventory practices and the effectiveness of current standard operating procedures,
and to recommend improvements to
the inventory processes, for a fee of
$164,016.00, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities; and
Whereas, Cleveland Public Power
desires Consultant to add to its
scope of services inventory taking
and valuation services, as initially
requested in the City’s Request for
Proposals but not included under
Resolution No. 622-07; now, therefore,

Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that Resolution No. 622-07 adopted
November 21, 2007, approving RNR
Consulting for professional inventory management and control services
necessary to assess inventory practices and the effectiveness of current standard operating procedures,
and to recommend improvements to
the inventory processes, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, is
amended by adding inventory taking and valuation services to the
scope of services and increasing the
contract fee amount from $164,016.00
to $223,000.00.
Be it further resolved, that all
other provisions of Resolution No.
622-07 not expressly amended above
shall remain unchanged and in full
force and effect.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Pesti,
Directors
Fumich,
Guzman
and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 18-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2430-03, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
February 2, 2004, and Resolution No.
465-06, adopted by this Board on
October 18, 2006, the City, through
its
Director
of
Public
Utilities,
entered into City Contract No. 66347
with TMG Consulting, Inc. to provide the professional services necessary for project management services to select software, select an
integration consultant to implement
the installation of software, project
oversight, quality control and quality
assurance services, assistance with
data conversion, provide technical
support, and other related services
to CWD for a new Customer Information System/Customer Relationship
Management System (CIS/CRM), for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, the City has determined
that additional services and extending the term of City Contract No.
66347 to a 31 month period are needed for the CIS/CRM Project Management Services for implementation and post implementation of a
new
customer
information
and
billing system; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1036-07,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on August 8, 2007 authorizes the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into contract amendments
relative to contracts entered into for
services related to the CIS/CRM Project; and
Whereas, TMG Consulting, Inc. has
proposed by memorandum the necessary additional services; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the Director of Public Utilities
is authorized to enter into a first
modification to City Contract No.
66347 with TMG Consulting, Inc., on
the basis of TMG Consulting, Inc.’s
June 23, 2006 proposal, and revised
fee proposal dated August 14, 2006,
for additional services, extending

72

January 16, 2008
the term of City Contract No. 66347
to a 31 month period and increasing
the dollar amount of the contract by
$1,502,533.00 to $6,098,393.00, increasing the subcontract amount for Solar
Systems Networking, Inc. (FBE) from
$244,800.00 (5.33%) to $304,920.00
(5.00%)
and Paragon Tec, Inc.
(MBE) from $729,600.00 (15.88%) to
$914,759.00 (15.00%).
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to execute all documents and
to do all things necessary to effect
the first modification to Contract No.
66347 authorized above.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Pesti,
Directors
Fumich,
Guzman
and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 19-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Whereas, under authority of Section 129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,
Board of Control Resolution No. 50906 adopted November 8, 2006 and
Ordinance No. 1022-05 passed June
13, 2005, Board of Control Resolution
No. 654-05, adopted November 23,
2005, the City of Cleveland entered
into City Contract 66502 with Hertz
Equipment Rental Corporation for
an estimated quantity of repair
parts for pumps, saws and small
engines, for a total estimate amount
of $106,000.00 and City Contract No.
65271 with Hertz Equipment Rental
Corp. for an estimated quantity of
rental of various heavy duty equipment, Group A for a total estimate
amount of $75,000.00, for the various
divisions of the Department of Public Utilities; and
Whereas, by their joint letter
dated October 18, 2007, Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation and Phillips Contractors Supply, LLC. notified the City that Phillips Contractors Supply, LLC. has purchased
Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation’s retail business, and requested
the City’s consent to assignment of
City Contract Nos. 66502 and 65271
to Phillips Contractors Supply, LLC.,
effective October 18, 2007; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that this Board acknowledges Phillips Contractors Supply, LLC.’s purchase of Hertz Equipment Rental
Corporation’s retail business and
authorizes the Director of Public
Utilities to consent on behalf of the
City, to the request of Hertz Equipment Rental Corporation to assign
City Contract Nos. 66502 and 65271
for the purchase of the City’s Requirements for repair parts for
pumps, saws and small engines and
rental of various heavy duty equipment, Group A, to Phillips Contractors Supply, LLC., effective October
18, 2007.
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to execute all documents necessary to effect the consent to the
assignment of City Contract Nos.
66502 and 65271 authorized above. A
copy of the consent to assignment
and the assignment of Contract Nos.

The City Record

January 16, 2008
66502 and 65271 shall be filed with
the original of each contract in the
custody of the Commissioner of
Accounts.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Pesti,
Directors
Fumich,
Guzman
and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 20-08.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Commercial Siding &
Maintenance Company, for the public improvement of the building
improvements for the Zelma George
Recreation Center roof replacement
rebid, base bid, for the Department
of
Public
Service,
received
on
November 28, 2007, under the authority of Ordinance No. 489-07, passed
June 4, 2007, for a gross price for
the improvement in the aggregate
amount of $610,000.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bidder, and the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Pesti,
Directors
Fumich,
Guzman
and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 21-08.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Professional Roofing Services, Inc., for the public improvement of the building improvements
for the Highland Hills Cemetery
roof replacement, base bid, and
alternate 1, for the Department of
Public Service, received on November 14, 2007, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 735-06, passed June 12,
2006, for a gross price for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $214,000, is affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bidder, and the Director of Public
Service is authorized to enter into
contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by Professional Roofing Services, Inc. is
approved:
Subcontractor
MBE/FBE
East-West Construction
MBE

Amount
Percentage

$40,000.00
18.69%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Pesti,
Directors
Fumich,
Guzman
and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.

Resolution No. 22-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according
to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of
the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 105-30-136 located at East 76th
Street in Ward 8; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Anthony Waldon, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with Anthony Waldon for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 105-30-136 located at
East 76th Street, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Pesti,
Directors
Fumich,
Guzman
and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 23-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according
to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of
the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 112-03-134 located at Deise Avenue in Ward 10; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,

73

39
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Peggy A. Perkins, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 10 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with Peggy A. Perkins
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 112-03-134 located
at Deise Avenue, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Pesti,
Directors
Fumich,
Guzman
and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 24-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according
to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of
the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 108-23-023 located at St. Clair
Avenue in Ward 8; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
green space for supportive housing
project; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has consented to the proposed sale;

40
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with Cleveland Housing
Network, Inc. for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 10823-023 located at St. Clair Avenue,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Pesti,
Directors
Fumich,
Guzman
and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 25-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according
to the provisions of Chapter 5722 of
the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 111-11-072 located at Cornado in
Ward 10; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas,
Beverly
Shipp,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 10 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed

The City Record
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with Beverly Shipp for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 111-11-072 located at
Cornado, according to the Land
Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of
the program.
Be it further resolved that the
consideration for said parcel shall
be $1.00, which amount is determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Director Withers, Directors
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Pesti,
Directors
Fumich,
Guzman
and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, JANUARY 28, 2008

January 16, 2008
corner of East 105th Street and Norman Avenue at 2287 East 105th
Street; contrary to the Fence Regulations a 6 foot height is proposed
and in a non-residential district,
other than General and Unrestricted Industry Districts, fences in
actual front and side street yards
shall not exceed 4 feet in height
and shall be at least 50 percent
open above 2 feet in height, as stated in Section 358.05(a)(2) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 08-1: 3573 East 78th
Street (Ward 12)
Cleveland Wire Cloth and Manufacturing Company, owner, appeals
to construct a one-story addition at
an existing manufacturing facility,
located on an acreage parcel in a
Semi-Industry District east side
of East 78th Street at 3573 East
78th
Street; contrary to Section
349.07(c)(3) the proposed driveway
along East 78th Street is 42 feet
wide and exceeds the maximum
allowed width of 30 feet; with a proposed dock approximately 40 feet
from the building line along the
street where not less than 50 feet is
required there from and is 65 feet
from the street center line, contrary
to Section 349.17 that requires not
less than 80 feet from the street center line; and by the provisions of
Sections 352.10 and 352.11, a 10 foot
wide landscape transition strip with
seventy-five percent year-round opacity is required along the south side
area of the lot abutting a Two-Family District; and razor wire is not a
permitted fence material as stated
in Section 358.05 of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 08-2: 2708 Jay Avenue
(Ward 13)
David Posteraro, owner, appeals
to erect a one-story frame addition
to an existing one family dwelling
for a 22' x 20' two car garage and
an 18' x 20' family room on an
85.92' x 55.38' corner lot, located in
a B1 Two-Family District on the
northeast corner of Jay Avenue and
West 28th Street at 2708 Jay Avenue; the proposed addition contrary
to Section 355.04, exceeding fifty
percent of the lot size with 7,539
square
feet
proposed
and
2,379
square feet allowed; a proposed rear
yard depth of 5 feet 6 3/4" proposed
contrary to 20 feet and Section
357.08(2)(b)(1); with side yards of 3
feet and 4 foot 8" provided where
the aggregate width of side yards
is 10 feet, as stated in Section
357.09(b)(2)(c) of the Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 07-258: 2287 East 105th
Street (Ward 6)
Blasé
Pietrafese,
owner,
and
Anita Lillard, prospective tenant,
appeal to install approximately 72
lineal feet of 6 foot high chain link
fence on a 50' x 115' corner parcel, located in a General Retail
Business District on the northeast

74

MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 2008
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, January
14, 2008, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The following appeal was Granted:

The City Record

January 16, 2008
Calendar No. 07-187: 4200 East 71st
Street
Newburgh & South Shore Railway
LLC, owner, and North Coast Ferrous Supply, Inc., tenant, appealed
to use as a scrap yard a five acre
portion of an approximate fifty-five
acre railroad yard in a General
Industry District; subject to conditions of revised plan.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 07-207: 8500 Aetna Road
– Violation Notice
FPT Real Estate LLC appealed
from a Notice of Violation issued by
the Building and Housing Department.
Calendar No. 07-208: 8550 Aetna Road
FPT Real Estate LLC appealed
from a Notice of Violation issued by
the Building and Housing Department.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
None.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

None.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 07-260: 11333-37 Superior
Avenue postponed to February 25,
2008.
Calendar No. 07-261: 12222 Soika Avenue postponed to April 7, 2008.
Calendar No. 07-263: 4239 Lee Road
postponed to March 31, 2008.
Calendar No. 07-225: 1145 Galewood
Drive postponed to February 25,
2008.
In Executive Session on January
14, 2008 the following appeal heard
by the Board on January 7, 2008 was
adopted and approved.
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 07-255: 1351 East 105th
Street
Vera Coe appealed to change from
a public library to a learning center
the use of an existing two-story
building in a Residence Office District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
January 9, 2008
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:

Docket A-150-07.
RE: Appeal of Doug Perkowski,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 1427 East
45th Street from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER, dated August 14, 2007 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-150-07 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
* * *
Docket A-157-07.
RE: Appeal of Novaster Mortgage
Inc., Mortgagee of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-family Residence Two and
One/half Story Frame located on the
premises known as 10606 Lamontier
Avenue from a CONDEMNATION
ORDER of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated
September 11, 2007, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to obtain permits and abate the violations, beginning with the exterior
as stated by the City; the property
must
remain
secured
and
the
grounds debris free and groomed;
the property is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-166-07.
RE: Appeal of Dale E. Woodard,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
3062 East 130th Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, dated September 27,
2007, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to obtain permits and begin abatement of the violations; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-168-07.
RE: Appeal of June Jackson,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
14614 Velour Avenue from a 7 DAY
CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS of

75

41
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated September 27, 2007, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, noting that
the Appellant has not appeared, a
motion is in order at this time to
find that the violations were properly issued and to REMAND the
property at 14614 Velour Avenue to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Gallagher
and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-169-07.
RE: Appeal of Midfirst Bank,
Mortgagee of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-Family Residence Two
and One/half Story Frame Property
located on the premises known as
14721 Westropp Avenue from a 7
DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MS of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
dated October 9, 2007, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled for January 23,
2008.
* * *
Docket A-173-07.
RE: Appeal of David N. Lengle,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
1448
West
85th
Street
from
a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated October 8, 2007 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant four (4) months in which
to abate the violation, noting that
the Appellant is prepared to begin
as soon as the weather changes; and
to request that the inspector stop by
the property and see that that happens timely; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-180-07.
RE: Appeal of Eunice Evans,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-family Two and One/half Story
Masonry Residential Property located on the premises known as 10402
Miles Avenue from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION — EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE, dated October 30, 2007 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring

The City Record

42
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-180-07 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for February 20, 2008.
* * *
Docket A-190-07.
RE: Appeal of City of Cleveland
— IX Center, Owner of the Property located on the premises known as
6200 Riverside Drive from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, dated December 12, 2007,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and recognize the methods
used by the Home and Garden Show
committee to present reasonable access for ADA requirements. Motion
so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-191-07.
RE: Appeal of Angelo Knowles
C/O Felisa Jones, Owner of the
Property located on the premises
known as 848 East 152nd Street from
an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated September
14, 2007, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
facility requires a sprinkler system
per the Codified Ordinances and that
the variance will be granted to
allow ADA accessibility on the first
floor only, and that plans must be
reviewed and approved by the Building Department and be satisfactory
to their requirements; the Appellant
must provide a more detailed description of the type of tenants anticipated. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-3-08.
RE: Appeal of Matthew Howells,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 140 Public
Square from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
dated November 19, 2007, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variances required to allow exiting to
remain as or to be constructed as
indicated with the separate exit
going out to the adjacent property
and to maintain the corridor and the
stairwell as it is; to grant the variance to the reduction of the Fire
Command Center to 72 square feet
and to permit the existing doors to

January 16, 2008

remain with the provision that
sprinkler heads be located on both
sides of the door, and over the door.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Gallagher,
Saab,
Bradley.
Nays:
None.

Please send your suggestions to
webmaster@clevelandcitycouncil.org
or to Attn: Charter Review, Cleveland
City Council, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 220, Cleveland, Ohio 44114.
_____
January 9-16-23-30, 2008

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
* * *

_____________

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):

Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning

A-130-07—Gladys Madera.
A-156-07—Walter Jannis.
A-161-07—Alex Kundrat.
A-178-07 — FPT Cleveland Real
Estate.
A-179-07 — FPT Cleveland Real
Estate.
A-181-07—Jonathan Ullrich.
A-182-07—James Scott Hlebak.
A-186-07—Huntington.
A-187-07—CTF Hotel Holdings, Inc.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
December 12, 2007
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE
In accordance with Section 200-1
of the City of Cleveland Charter,
Cleveland City Council must appoint
15 Cleveland electors to the Charter
Review Commission by no later than
February 1, 2008. These commission
members, within six months, are to
make recommendations for proposed
changes to the City Charter, which
are reviewed by Council. Those that
are approved are placed before the
voters.
The Charter Review process is an
opportunity to streamline outdated
codes and procedures and to take a
close look at they way the City operates.
Commission
members
are
responsible for considering changes
to the Charter, which is the City’s
governing document. Cleveland City
Council believes the input of concerned Cleveland citizens is needed
to ensure that the Charter is reflective of the needs of City residents.
Your suggestions for Charter alterations are welcome.

76

Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Wednesday, January 23, 2008
1:00 p.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Wednesday, January 23, 2008, at 1:00
p.m., to consider the following ordinances now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 1066-07.
By Council Member Britt.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of property on the northwest corner of Buckeye Road and
East 116th Street to a Local Retail
Business District (Map Change Number 2235, Sheet Number 9).
Ord. No. 1267-07.
By Council Member Coats.
An ordinance changing the Use
Districts of lands between East
152nd Street and Ivanhoe Road
south of Saint Clair Avenue to a
Local Retail Business District as
shown on the attached map (Map
Change Number 2238, Sheet 7).
Ord. No. 2022-07.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An ordinance to change the zoning of a parcel of land on the west
side of East 80th Street, North of
Aetna Road from a Two Family
Residential District to a Semi-Industry (Map Change No. 2248 Sheet No.
6).
Ord. No. 2024-07.
By Council Member Santiago.
An ordinance to change the zoning
of
parcels
south
of
Clark
Avenue between Fulton Road and
West 34th Place as shown on the
attached map to Local Retail Business, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’
Height District (Map Change No.
2249 Sheet No. 2).
Ord. No. 5-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land at the northwest corner of West 11th Street and Fairfield Avenue from Multi-Family Residential to Local Retail Business
(Map Change Number 2250, Sheet 7).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Joseph C. Cimperman
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
_____
January 9, 2008 and January 16, 2008

January 16, 2008
CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, JANUARY 24, 2008
File No. 1-08 — Bellaire Road Rehabilitation, for the Division of
Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 55-07,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, March 26, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF SEVENTY-FIVE DOLLARS ($75.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS
AND
NO
CASH
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 17, 2008
AT 10:00 A.M., CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, ROOM 518, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
January 9, 2008 and January 16, 2008
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2008
File No. 4-08 — Labor and Materials
Necessary to Maintain and Repair
Elevators and Escalators, for the
Various Divisions of Port Control,

The City Record
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 180407, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 3,
2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, JANUARY 18, 2008 AT 10:00
A.M., CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, CENTRAL
RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.
January 9, 2008 and January 16, 2008
THURSDAY, JANUARY 31, 2008
File No. 2-08 — Purchase of Various Ford Passenger/Police Vehicle Parts and Labor, for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 686-07, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 11,
2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2008 AT 10:00
A.M., DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, BUILDING
#1, 4150 EAST 49TH STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
File No. 3-08 — Demolition, Removal,
Furnish and Construction of Two
Manufactured Steel Buildings, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 483-07, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 4,
2007.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2008 AT 10:00
A.M., DIVISION OF CLEVELAND
PUBLIC POWER, 1300 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
January 9, 2008 and January 16, 2008
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2008
File No. 5-08 — Halloran Park Gazebo Site Improvements, for the
Division of Research, Planning
and Development, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
1513-05, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, October 17,
2005.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, JANUARY 24, 2008
AT 10:00 A.M., BURKE LAKEFRONT AIRPORT, FIRST FLOOR
CONFERENCE ROOM, 1501 NORTH
MARGINAL ROAD, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
January 16, 2008 and January 23, 2008

77

43
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2008
File No. 9-08 — Purchase of Asphalt
Concrete and Tack Coat for Runways,
Taxiways,
Ramps
and
Roadways Including Labor and
Materials for Repair and Installation, for the Various Divisions of
Port Control, Department of Port
Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1930-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 10, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2008 AT 10:00
A.M., CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, CENTRAL
RECEIVING
BUILDING,
19451
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135-3193.
January 16, 2008 and January 23, 2008
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2008
File No. 6-08 — Gas Chromatograph
and Mass Spectrometer, for the
Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1251-07, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, October 15, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2008 AT 11:00
A.M., EMERGENCY OPERATIONS
CENTER, CONFERENCE ROOM
306, 205 WEST SAINT CLAIR
AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44115.
January 16, 2008 and January 23, 2008
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2008
File No. 7-08 — Select Renovations
of 3rd and 14th Floor at Cleveland Municipal Court, for the
Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ohio Revised Code Section 1901.26(B)(1) effective February 27, 2006.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY
DOLLARS
($50.00)
IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER
(NO COMPANY CHECKS AND NO
CASH WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 24, 2008
AT 2:00 P.M., COURTROOM 14B,
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT,
CLEVELAND JUSTICE CENTER,
1200
ONTARIO,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44113.
January 16, 2008 and January 23, 2008
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2008
File No. 8-08 — Cremation or Burial
Services for the Indigent Dead, for
the Division of Vital Statistics,
Department of Public Health, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 68307, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 4, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2008 AT
11:30 A.M., CITY OF CLEVELAND, DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
HEALTH, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, ROOM #6, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
January 16, 2008 and January 23, 2008

The City Record

44
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2008
File No. 10-08 — Cleaning and Cement
Lining of Distribution Mains Area
2008-A, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 187007, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, pending.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF ONE
HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER
(NO COMPANY CHECKS AND NO
CASH WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2008 AT
11:00 A.M., PUBLIC UTILITIES
BUILDING, 1ST FLOOR AUDITORIUM, 1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 11-08 — Cleaning and Cement
Lining of Distribution Mains Area
2008-B, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 187007, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, pending.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE
FOR
PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF ONE
HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER
(NO COMPANY CHECKS AND NO
CASH WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 2008 AT
11:00 A.M., PUBLIC UTILITIES
BUILDING, 1ST FLOOR AUDITORIUM, 1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 12-08 — Relocation of Taxiway W WBS No. E-211-3, for the
Division Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of
Port Control, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 462-05, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 9, 2005.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 24, 2008
AT
10:00
A.M.,
CLEVELAND
HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, ENGINEERING BUILDING,
19501
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
January 16, 2008 and January 23, 2008

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 6-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit at 612 Prospect Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 1136-07, objecting to said
renewal.

January 16, 2008

Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 612
Prospect Avenue by Resolution No.
1136-07 adopted by the Council on
July 11, 2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 612 Prospect Avenue, DBA Nick’s, 612 Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115,
Permanent Number 8200509, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1136-07, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at New Central Foods,
Inc., 7109 Central Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
6367093; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

Res. No. 7-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
7109 Central Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at New Central
Foods, Inc., 7109 Central Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 6367093; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation

Res. No. 8-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 3609
Community College Avenue and repealing Resolution No. 1317-07, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 3609
Community College Avenue by Resolution No. 1317-07 adopted by the
Council on August 22, 2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Curtis
Hunt, DBA Right On Time Food and
Beverage, 3609 Community College
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 40739630001, be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1317-07, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

78

January 16, 2008
Res. No. 9-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
2165 East 55th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at General Petrol,
Inc., DBA Sunoco, 2165 East 55th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44103, Permanent Number 31053890005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1.
That Council does
hereby record its objection to a New
C1 Liquor Permit at General Petrol,
Inc., DBA Sunoco, 2165 East 55th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44103, Permanent Number 31053890005; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

The City Record
Res. No. 10-08.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of stock of a C1
Liquor Permit to 657 East 152nd
Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of stock of a C1 Liquor Permit
at 657 East 152nd Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44110,
Permanent
Number
2405365; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of stock of a C1 Liquor Permit at
657 East 152nd Street, East 152nd,
Inc., 657 East 152nd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
2405365, and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

79

45
Res. No. 11-08.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
10109-11 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at 1ST Stop Shop
LLC, DBA 1st Stop Shop, 10109-11 St.
Clair Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 2739515; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at 1st Stop Shop LLC,
DBA 1st Stop Shop, 10109-11 St. Clair
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44108, Permanent Number 2739515; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

46
Res. No. 12-08.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit at 14101 1/2
Kinsman and repealing Resolution
No. 1121-07, objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected
to a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to
14101 1/2 Kinsman by Resolution
No. 1121-07 adopted by the Council
on July 11, 2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Zetawi,
Inc., DBA Mount Pleasant Beverage,
14101 1/2 Kinsman, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, Permanent Number 99020560001,
be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1121-07,
containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

Res. No. 13-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of a C1
Liquor Permit at 3726 Clark Avenue,
and repealing Resolution No. 1667-07,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
Liquor Permit to Clark Mart Corp.,
DBA Clark Sunoco, 3726 Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent No. 1525480, by Resolution No.
1667-07 adopted by the Council on
October 8, 2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to Clark Mart Corp.,
DBA Clark Sunoco, 3726 Clark Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent Number 1525480 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1667-07, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all

The City Record
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

Res. No. 14-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit at 5004 Storer, and repealing
Resolution No. 1338-07, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to 5004 Storer by Resolution No.
1338-07 adopted by the Council on
August 8, 2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D1,
D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit to
Santiago
Sanchez
Entertainment
Group LLC, 5004 Storer, Cleveland,
Ohio
44102,
Permanent
Number
7709514, be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 133807, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

Ord. No. 1613-07.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 116th
Street
to Margaret P. Tod Gregory.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

80

January 16, 2008
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 136-19-017,
as more fully described below, to
Margaret P. Tod Gregory.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 136-19-017
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
17 in William Jantzen’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 467 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 15 of Maps,
Page
24
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 116th
Street, 137.51 feet deep on the Northerly line, 137.81 feet deep on the
Southerly line and 40 feet wide in
the rear, as appears by said plat.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

Ord. No. 1874-07.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 489-07,
passed June 4, 2007, relating to the
public improvement of rehabilitating, renovating, reconstructing or
otherwise improving various Department of Parks, Recreation and Prop-

January 16, 2008
erties
facilities,
authorizing
the
Director of Public Service to construct the improvements, and to employ one or more professional consultants to implement the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 4 of Ordinance No. 489-07, passed June 4, 2007,
is amended to read as follows:
Section 4. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 362, 20 SF 371, 20
SF 381, 20 SF 391, 20 SF 503, 20 SF
508, and 50 SF 001, Request No.
156217.
Section 2. That the existing Section 4 of Ordinance No. 489-07,
passed June 4, 2007, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

Ord. No. 1921-07.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of rock salt,
for the Division of Streets, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year of the necessary items of rock salt, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
not
exceed
$3,000,000
and
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and

The City Record
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 175490)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Service may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

Ord. No. 1931-07.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Natural Resources for the 2008 Community Development Grant (Recycle Ohio)
Program; authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies to implement
the program; and authorizing one or
more contracts for the purchase of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services for the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $100,000 from
the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources, for the 2008 Community
Development Grant (Recycle Ohio)
Program, for the purposes in the
summary and according thereto;
that the Director of Public Service
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the
summary for the grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 1931-07-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, including the obligation
of the City of Cleveland to provide
$50,000 in cash matching funds from
Fund No. 01-400307-639905, as presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at the public hearing on
this legislation, is approved in all
respects and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources to
implement the program.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with var-

81

47
ious agencies for the implementation and operation of the program.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for the period of
the grant term for the necessary
items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary for
implementation and operation of the
grant, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department
of Public Service. Bids shall be
taken in a manner which permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire grant term.
The cost of the contracts or contracts shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of the initial purchase,
which
purchase,
together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies under a
requisition against the contract certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Service may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That the cost of the
above authorized contracts shall be
paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance
and the cash match.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

Ord. No. 1978-07.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Pierce Scott and Cimperman (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Blue 22 LTD.
to provide for a 10-year, 35 percent
tax abatement for certain real property improvements in the form of
new construction and site improvements associated with the construction of a new office building located at 4725 Grayton Road in the
Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, by letter dated November 30, 2007, the City provided the

48
Cleveland Municipal School District
(“CMSD”) with a notice of proposed
tax exemptions required by Section
5709.83 of the Revised Code. That
notice was provided to the CMSD not
later than fourteen days prior to
passage of this ordinance; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 94895, passed June 19, 1995, this Council designated an area, which is in
the City of Cleveland and described
in File No. 948-95-A, as the Cleveland
Area Enterprise Zone (the “Zone”)
under Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains
the
characteristics
described in division (A) of Section
5709.61 of the Revised Code and certified the area as an “Urban Jobs
and Enterprise Zone” under Chapter
5709 of the Revised Code; and
Whereas,
Blue
22
LTD.
(the
“Enterprise”) has proposed to construct a new office building located
at 4725 Grayton Road in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that it would be
at a competitive disadvantage operating at this location if taxes on
real property improvements were
not abated; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, safety, property, and welfare and that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, and the
assistance is immediately necessary
or jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council approves the application of the Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives
on the basis that the Enterprise is
qualified by financial responsibility
and business experience to create
and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone and to improve the economic climate of the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a ten-year, thirty-five
percent (35%) tax abatement for
real
property
improvements;
the
abatement shall be subject to annual review of the Tax Incentive
Review Council.
Section 3. That the terms of the
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms in the Summary contained in File No. 1978-07A. These terms shall not be amended, nor shall the tax abatement be
assignable or transferable to any
entity, without the prior legislative
authorization
by
Cleveland
City
Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
listed in Chapter 5709 of the Revised
Code. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 17 SF
305.

The City Record
Section 5. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section
6.
That
any
contract
authorized by this legislation must
require the recipient of financial
assistance to work with The Workforce Investment Board for Workforce Area No. 3 to identify and
solicit qualified candidates for job
opportunities related to the City’s
contracts. The identification process
shall place special emphasis on the
hard to employ, including people
who are disabled and people who
have been convicted of or who have
pled guilty to a criminal offense
which is unrelated to the duties of
the job opportunity.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

Ord. No. 15-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Johnson and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a
grant agreement with the United
Black Fund of Greater Cleveland
Inc., as the fiscal agent of the
African American Cultural Garden
Society, to assist in establishing and
developing the African American
Cultural Garden.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into a grant
agreement with the United Black
Fund of Greater Cleveland Inc., as
the fiscal agent of the African
American Cultural Garden Society,
to assist in establishing and developing the African American Cultural Garden.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed an amount of
$250,000 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 526, Request No.
112057.
Section 3. That the agreement and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

82

January 16, 2008
Ord. No. 16-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the American Heart Association to
stretch a banner across East 9th
Street near Jacobs Field for the period from July 11, 2008 to August 10,
2008, inclusive, publicizing the annual Heart Walk at Gateway.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby
authorized and directed to issue a
permit to the American Heart Association to install, maintain and remove a banner across East 9th Street
near Jacobs Field, for the period
from July 11, 2008 to August 10, 2008,
inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation with the Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed January 7, 2008.
Effective January 9, 2008.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, January 14, 2008
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair;
Brancatelli, Brady, Conwell, Pierce
Scott,
Zone,
Westbrook,
Coats,
White. Authorized Absence: Britt.
Tuesday, January 15, 2008
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Cummins, Westbrook, Brady, Zone.
Authorized
Absence:
Cimperman,
Coats, Lewis.
Wednesday, January 16, 2008
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice Chair;
Britt, Polensek, Coats, Kelley, Cummins, Turner. Authorized Absence:
Santiago.
1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee: Present:
Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Keane, Kelley, Westbrook. Authorized Absence: Polensek, Santiago.

The City Record

January 16, 2008

49

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Playground Improvement Project — Young Men’s Christian Association of
Cleveland Ohio, Inc. — Ward 21 NEF (O 70-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69

American Heart Association
Heart Walk at Gateway, Annual — banner (O 16-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Appreciation
Jimenez, Ines (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Banners
American Heart Association — annual Heart Walk at Gateway (O 16-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Aerna Road, 8550, (Ward 2) — FPT Cleveland Real Estate LLC/FPT Cleveland LLC, owner —
appeal adopted on 1/9/08 (Doc. A-179-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Aetna Road, 8550, (Ward 2) — FPT Cleveland Real Estate LLC/FPT Cleveland LLC, owner —
appeal adopted on 1/9/08 (Doc. A-178-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
East 130th Street, 3062, (Ward 3) — Dale E. Woodard, owner — appeal resolved on 1/9/08
(Doc. A-166-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
East 152nd Street, 848, (Ward 10) — Angelo Knowles, c/o Felisa Jones, owner — appeal
resolved on 1/9/08 (Doc. A-191-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
East 45th Street, 1427, (Ward 13) — Doug Perkowski, owner — appeal withdrawn on 1/9/08
(Doc. A-150-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Euclid Avenue, 917-925, (19th Floor), (Ward 13) — Huntington, owner — appeal adopted on
1/9/08 (Doc. A-186-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Harland Avenue, 17306, (Ward 11) — Alex Kundrat, owner — appeal adopted on 1/9/08
(Doc. A-161-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Lamontier Avenue, 10606, (Ward 4) — Novaster Mortgage, Inc., mortgagee — appeal resolved
on 1/9/08 (Doc. A-157-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Miles Avenue, 10402, (Ward 2) — Eunice Evans, owner — appeal rescheduled to 2/20/08 on
1/9/08 (Doc. A-180-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Old Grayton Road, 4963, (Ward 20) — Jonathan Ullrich, owner — appeal adopted on 1/9/08
(Doc. A-181-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Public Square, 140, (Ward 13) — Matthew Howells, owner — appeal resolved on 1/9/08
(Doc. A-3-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Public Square, 24 , (Ward 13) — CTF Hotel Holdings, Inc., owner — appeal adopted on
1/9/08 (Doc. A-187-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Riverside Drive, 6200, (Ward 20) — City of Cleveland — IX Center, owner — appeal resolved
on 1/9/08 (Doc. A-190-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Royal Road, 887, (Ward 11) — James Scott Hlebak, owner — appeal adopted on 1/9/08
(Doc. A-182-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Velour Avenue, 14614, (Ward 10) — June Jackson, owner — appeal resolved on 1/9/08
(Doc. A-168-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Wakefield Avenue, 6014, (Ward 17) — Gladys Madera, owner — appeal adopted on 1/9/08
(Doc. A-130-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
West 85th Street, 1448, (Ward 18) — David N. Lengle, owner — appeal resolved on 1/9/08
(Doc. A-173-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Westropp Avenue, 14721, (Ward 10) — MidFirst Bank, mortgagee — appeal rescheduled
to 1/23/08 on 1/9/08 (Doc. A-169-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Wheelock Road, 914, (Ward 8) — Walter Jannis, owner — appeal adopted on 1/9/08
(Doc. A-156-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76

83

The City Record

50

January 16, 2008

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Inventory Management and Control services — amend BOC Res. 623-07 —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 17-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Repair parts for pumps, saws and small engines — Equipment, heavy duty,
rental of (Group A) — consent to assignment Contract #66502 per
BOC Res. 509-06 — Contract #65271 per BOC Res. 654-05 —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 19-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72

Board of Control — Community Development Department
Cornado Avenue (Ward 10) — PPN 111-11-072 — Beverly Shipp (
BOC Res. 25-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Deise Avenue (Ward 10) — PPN 112-03-134 — Peggy A. Perkins
(BOC Res. 23-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
East 76th Street (Ward 8) — PPN 105-30-136 — Anthony Waldon
(BOC Res. 22-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
St. Clair Avenue (Ward 8) — PPN 108-23-023 — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(BOC Res. 24-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73

Board of Control — Highland Park Cemetery
Roof replacement — contract per Ord. 735-06 to Professional Roofing Services, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 21-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Cornado Avenue (Ward 10) — PPN 111-11-072 — Beverly Shipp
(BOC Res. 25-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Deise Avenue (Ward 10) — PPN 112-03-134 — Peggy A. Perkins
(BOC Res. 23-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
East 76th Street (Ward 8) — PPN 105-30-136 — Anthony Waldon
(BOC Res. 22-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
St. Clair Avenue (Ward 8) — PPN 108-23-023 — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(BOC Res. 24-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Customer Information System/Customer Relationship Management System
(CIS/CRM) project management services — modify Contract #66347 per
BOC Res. 465-06 — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 18-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Inventory Management and Control services — amend BOC Res. 623-07 —
Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 17-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Highland Hills Cemetery roof replacement — contract per Ord. 735-06 to
Professional Roofing Services, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 21-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Zelma George Recreation Center roof replacement — contract per Ord. 489-07 to
Commercial Siding & Maintenance Company — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 20-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Highland Hills Cemetery roof replacement — contract per Ord. 735-06 to Professional
Roofing Services, Inc. (BOC Res. 21-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Zelma George Recreation Center roof replacement — contract per Ord. 489-07 to Commercial
Siding & Maintenance Company (BOC Res. 20-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Customer Information System/Customer Relationship Management System
(CIS/CRM) project management services — modify Contract #66347 per
BOC Res. 465-06 — Division of Water (BOC Res. 18-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Inventory Management and Control services — amend BOC Res. 623-07 —
Division of Cleveland Public Power (BOC Res. 17-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72

84

January 16, 2008

The City Record

51

Repair parts for pumps, saws and small engines — Equipment, heavy duty,
rental of (Group A) — consent to assignment Contract #66502 per
BOC Res. 509-06 — Contract #65271 per BOC Res. 654-05 —
Divisions of Cleveland Public Power, Water, Water Pollution
Control (BOC Res. 19-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Tree lawn repair and landscaping services — cancel Contract #65802 per
BOC REs. 271-06 — rejected — Divisions of Water and Water
Pollution Control (BOC Res. 16-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Repair parts for pumps, saws and small engines — Equipment, heavy duty,
rental of (Group A) — consent to assignment Contract #66502 per
BOC Res. 509-06 — Contract #65271 per BOC Res. 654-05 —
Divisions of Cleveland Public Power, Water, Water Pollution
Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 19-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Tree lawn repair and landscaping services — cancel Contract #65802
per BOC REs. 271-06 — rejected — Divisions of Water and Water
Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 16-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72

Board of Control — Water Division
Customer Information System/Customer Relationship Management System
(CIS/CRM) project management services — modify Contract #66347 per
BOC Res. 465-06 — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 18-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Repair parts for pumps, saws and small engines — Equipment, heavy duty,
rental of (Group A) — consent to assignment Contract #66502 per
BOC Res. 509-06 — Contract #65271 per BOC Res. 654-05 — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 19-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Tree lawn repair and landscaping services — cancel Contract #65802 per
BOC REs. 271-06 — rejected — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 16-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Repair parts for pumps, saws and small engines — Equipment, heavy duty,
rental of (Group A) — consent to assignment Contract #66502 per
BOC Res. 509-06 — Contract #65271 per BOC Res. 654-05 —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 19-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Tree lawn repair and landscaping services — cancel Contract #65802
per BOC REs. 271-06 — rejected — Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 16-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72

Board of Elections
Certificate of Result of Official Count, City General Election November 6, 2007
(F 79-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Aetna Road, 8500, (Ward 2) — FPT Real Estate LLC, property owner —
appeal heard on 1/14/08 (Cal. 07-207) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Aetna Road, 8550, (Ward 2) — FPT Real Estate LLC, property owner —
appeal heard on 1/14/08 (Cal. 07-208) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
East 105th Street, 1351, (Ward 9) — Vera Coe, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
1/14/08 (Cal. 07-255). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
East 71st Street, 4200, (Ward 12) — Newburgh & South Shore Railway LLC,
owner and North Coast Ferrous Supply, Inc., tenant — appeal heard on 1/14/08
(Cal. 07-187) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Galewood Drive, 1145, (Ward 10) — Cleveland Home Repair, owner and
Georgiann Fenderson, tenant — appeal postponed to 2/25/08 on 1/14/08
(Cal. 07-225) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Lee Road, 4239, (Ward 1) — Open Pantry c/o Mohammed Alahmad, owner —
appeal postponed to 3/31/08 on 1/14/2008 (Cal. 07-263). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Soika Avenue, 12222, (Ward 3) — Abdul Muhammad, aka AKM Properties
Management LLC, owner — appeal postponed to 4/7/08 on 1/14/2008
(Cal. 07-261) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Superior Avenue, 11333-37, (Ward 9) — Gerald DeBose, owner —
appeal postponed to 2/25/08 on 1/14/2008 (Cal. 07-260). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75

85

The City Record

52

January 16, 2008

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
East 105th Street, 2287, (Ward 6) — Blase Pietrafese, owner and Anita Lillard,
prospective tenant — appeal to be heard on 1/28/08 (Cal. 07-258) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
East 785th Street, 3573, (Ward 12) — Cleveland Wire Cloth and Manufacturing Company,
owner — appeal to be heard on 1/28/08 (Cal. 08-1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Jay Avenue, 2708, (Ward 13) — David Posteraro, owner — appeal to be heard on 1/28/08
(Cal. 08-2). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74

Bonds
Cleveland Public Power — issuance of bonds — financing capital costs
(O 63-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Public Power System revenue bonds — refund — issuance of bonds
(O 64-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46

City Council
Britt, City Clerk, Clerk of Council Patricia J. — oath of office
(F 87-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Britt, Council Member Patricia J. — Ward 6 — letter of resignation
(F 85-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Mitchell, Council Member Mamie J. — Ward 6 — oath of office
(F 86-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

City of Cleveland Bids
Bellaire Road rehabilitation — Department of Public Service — Division of
Engineering and Construction — per Ord. 55-07 — bid due January 24, 2008
(advertised 1/9/2008 and 1/16/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Concrete, asphalt and tack coat for runways, taxiways, ramps and roadways —
Department of Port Control — per Ord. 1930-07 — bid due February 1, 2008
(advertised 1/16/2008 and 1/23/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Cremation and burial services of indigent dead — Department of Public Health —
per Ord. 683-07 — bid due February 8, 2008 (advertised 1/16/2008 and 1/23/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Distribution water mains — Area 2008-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of —
Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 1870-07 —
bid due February 13, 2008 (advertised 1/16/2008 and 1/23/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Distribution water mains — Area 2008-B, cleaning and cement mortar lining of —
Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 1870-07 —
bid due February 13, 2008 (advertised 1/16/2008 and 1/23/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Elevator and escalator repair — Department of Port Control — per Ord. 1804-07 —
bid due January 30, 2008 (advertised 1/9/2008 and 1/16/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Ford passenger/police vehicle parts and labor — Department of Public Service —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 686-07 — bid due January 31, 2008
(advertised 1/9/2008 and 1/16/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Gas chromatograph and mass spectrometer — Department of Public Safety —
Division of Police — per Ord. 1251-07 — bid due February 6, 2008
(advertised 1/16/2008 and 1/23/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Halloran Park gazebo site improvements — Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties — Division of Research, Planning and Development — per Ord. 1513-05 —
bid due January 30, 2008 (advertised 1/16/2008 and 1/23/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Steel building demolition, removal, furnish and construction — Department of Public
Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public Power — per Ord. 483-07 — bid due January
31, 2008 (advertised 1/9/2008 and 1/16/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Taxiway W relocation (WBS No. E-211-3) — Department of Port Control —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — per Ord. 462-05 —
bid due February 13, 2008 (advertised 1/16/2008 and 1/23/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78

City Planning Commission
Buckeye Rd. & E. 116th St. (northwest corner) — change the Use District —
Local Retail Business District (O 1066-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Canal Basin Park — future development — amend Ord. Nos. 1850-04 & 844-07
(O 62-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Clark Ave. (south) — between Fulton Rd. & W. 34th Pl.) — change the zoning —
Local Retail Business, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District
(O 2024-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76

86

January 16, 2008

The City Record

53

E. 152nd St. & Ivanhoe Rd. (lands between) & south of St. Clair Ave. —
change the Use Districts — Local Retail Business District
(O 1267-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
E. 80th St. (west side) — north of Aetna Rd. — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
(O 2022-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Great Lakes Science Center — enclosed all-weather pedestrian connector —
amendment to Contract No. 64994 — Dock 32 — Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County Port Authority — City Planning and Port Control
(O 61-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
W. 11th St. & Fairfield Ave. (northwest corner) — change the use district —
Local Retail Business (O 5-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76

Clerk of Council
Britt, City Clerk, Clerk of Council Patricia J. — oath of office
(F 87-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Cleveland Public Power
Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule — new Section 523.049 —
customer service agreement (O 65-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Cleveland Public Power — issuance of bonds — financing capital costs
(O 63-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Public Power System revenue bonds — refund — issuance of bonds
(O 64-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46

Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority
Great Lakes Science Center — enclosed all-weather pedestrian connector —
amendment to Contract No. 64994 — Dock 32 — City Planning and
Port Control (O 61-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Codified Ordinances
Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule — new Section 523.049 —
customer service agreement — Cleveland Public Power
(O 65-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Construction contracts — violation and penalty — amend Section 188.05
(O 67-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Junk and secondhand dealers — amend Sections 676.01 & 676.06
(O 66-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Office of Equal Opportunity — amend Sec. 123.08 — new Sects. 187.01 to 187.29 —
repeal existing Sects. 187.01 to 187.16 (O 77-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

Communications
Britt, Council Member Patricia J. — letter of resignation (F 85-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Certificate of Result of Official Count, City General Election November 6, 2007 —
Board of Election (F 79-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Emerald Development & Economic Network, Inc. — re: Northridge Commons
Public Notification Letter — (Ward 19) (F 81-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Private Client Group — National City Bank Account Statement (F 80-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

Community Development
Atrium Office Plaza Complex — acquisition and redevelopment — contract —
The K & D Group, Inc. (O 59-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
E. 116th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Margaret P. Tod Gregory (O 1613-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

Condolences
Baker, James (R 95-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Hardy, Randell Herbert (R 89-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Holtkamp, David (R 88-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Keely-Coleman, Christine Carmicle (R 90-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Moss, John W. (R 92-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Summers, Sr., Christopher Eugene (R 91-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

87

The City Record

54

January 16, 2008

Congratulations
A.M.L.A. Lodge Kras, No. 8 (R 96-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Contracts
Atrium Office Plaza Complex — acquisition and redevelopment —
The K & D Group, Inc. — Community Development
(O 59-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Great Lakes Science Center — enclosed all-weather pedestrian connector —
amendment to Contract No. 64994 — Dock 32 — Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County Port Authority — City Planning and Port Control
(O 61-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Midland Steel Property (10615 Madison Ave.) — public improvement —
amend Ord. No. 1280-06 (O 60-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69

Economic Development Department
Grayton Rd., 4725 — property improvements — Enterprise Zone Agreement —
Blue 22 LTD. (O 1978-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Midland Steel Property (10615 Madison Ave.) — public improvement — amend Ord. No. 1280-06
(O 60-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69

Enterprise Zone Agreement
Grayton Rd., 4725 — property improvements — Blue 22 LTD. — Economic Development
(O 1978-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81

Gifts
Halloran Park — gift of playground equipment — Westown Community Development
Corporation and/or KaBoom (O 68-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69

Grants
African American Cultural Garden — establish & develop — grant agreement —
United Black Fund of Greater Cleveland Inc. — Parks, Recreation and Properties
(O 15-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Cleveland High Visibility Enforcement Overtime Program — University Hospital
(O 57-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Community Development Grant (Recycle Ohio) Program 2008 — Ohio Department of
Natural Resources — Public Service (O 1931-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Cuyahoga County OVI Task Force Program — University Hospitals
(O 58-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Minority Health — Local Office creation — encouraging Public Health Department —
apply for a grant — Ohio Commission (R 71-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

Health Department
Minority Health — Local Office creation — encouraging Public Health Department —
apply for a grant — Ohio Commission (R 71-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

Junk Yards
Junk and secondhand dealers — amend Sections 676.01 & 676.06
(O 66-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Land Reutilization Program
E. 116th St. — Margaret P. Tod Gregory (O 1613-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

Liquor Permits
Broadview Rd., 4661 — new (Ward 16) (F 82-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Brookpark Rd., 3500 — transfer (Ward 16) (F 84-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Central Ave., 7109 — objection (Ward 5) (R 7-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Clark Ave., 3726 — objection — withdraw (Ward 14) (R 13-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Community College Ave., 3609 — objection—withdraw ( Ward 5) (R 8-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
E. 152nd St., 657 — objecting (Ward 10) (R 10-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

88

January 16, 2008

The City Record

55

E. 55th St., 2165 — objection ( Ward 5) (R 9-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Kinsman Rd., 14101 1/2 — objection — withdraw (Ward 3) (R 12-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Old River Rd., 1204 — objection — withdraw (Ward 13) (R 72-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Outwaite Ave., 5803 & 5813 — objection — withdraw (Ward 5) (R 73-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Prospect Ave., 612 — objection — withdraw (Ward 13) (R 6-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Spring Rd., 1503 — objection — withdraw (Ward 15) (R 74-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
St. Clair Ave., 10109-11 — objection (Ward 8) (R 11-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Storer Ave., 5004 — objection — withdraw (Ward 14) (R 14-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
W. 25th St., 1871 — objection — liquor license (Ward 13 & 14) (R 75-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Woodside Ave., 12713-17 — transfer (Ward 9) (F 83-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

Minority Health Commission
Minority Health — Local Office creation — encouraging Public Health Department —
apply for a grant — Ohio Commission (R 71-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Kennedy Ave., 9314-16 & — Kennedy Ave., 9402-04 — purchase property —
storage & parking for City vehicles — Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties — Ward 4 (O 69-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Playground Improvement Project — agreement — Young Men’s Christian Association of
Cleveland Ohio, Inc. — Ward 21 (O 70-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69

Oath of Office
Britt, City Clerk, Clerk of Council Patricia J. (F 87-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Mitchell, Council Member Mamie J. — Ward 6 (F 86-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Office of Equal Opportunity
Construction contracts — violation and penalty — amend Section 188.05
(O 67-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Office of Equal Opportunity — amend Sec. 123.08 — new Sects. 187.01 to 187.29 —
repeal existing Sects. 187.01 to 187.16 (O 77-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

Ohio Department of Natural Resources
Community Development Grant (Recycle Ohio) Program 2008 — grant — Public Service
(O 1931-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
African American Cultural Garden — establish & develop — grant agreement —
United Black Fund of Greater Cleveland Inc. (O 15-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Canal Basin Park — future development — amend Ord. Nos. 1850-04 & 844-07
(O 62-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Great Lakes Science Center — enclosed all-weather pedestrian connector —
amendment to Contract No. 64994 — Dock 32 — Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County Port Authority — City Planning and Port Control
(O 61-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Halloran Park — gift of playground equipment — Westown Community
Development Corporation and/or KaBoom (O 68-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Kennedy Ave., 9314-16 & — Kennedy Ave., 9402-04 — purchase property —
storage & parking for City vehicles — Ward 4 NEF (O 69-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Facilities — public improvement — amend Ord. 489-07 (O 1874-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Playground Improvement Project — agreement — Young Men’s Christian
Association of Cleveland Ohio, Inc. — Ward 21 NEF
(O 70-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69

Permits
Marco and Shellie Periandri — public right-of-way — Justin Avenue S.W. —
fence and other backyard amenities (O 56-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Plain Dealer Walk for Hunger, 20th Annual — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
(O 76-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69

89

The City Record

56

January 16, 2008

Playgrounds
Halloran Park — gift of playground equipment — Westown Community
Development Corporation and/or KaBoom (O 68-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Young Men’s Christian Association of Cleveland Ohio, Inc. — Playground
Improvement Project — agreement — Ward 21 NEF (O 70-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69

Port Control Department
Great Lakes Science Center — enclosed all-weather pedestrian connector —
amendment to Contract No. 64994 — Dock 32 — Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County Port Authority — City Planning and Port Control
(O 61-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40

Public Hearings (Notices)
Buckeye Rd. & E. 116th St. (northwest corner) — change the Use District —
Local Retail Business District (O 1066-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Clark Ave. (south) — between Fulton Rd. & W. 34th Pl.) — change the zoning —
Local Retail Business, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District
(O 2024-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
E. 152nd St. & Ivanhoe Rd. (lands between) & south of St. Clair Ave. —
change the Use Districts — Local Retail Business District
(O 1267-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
E. 80th St. (west side) — north of Aetna Rd. — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
(O 2022-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
W. 11th St. & Fairfield Ave. (northwest corner) — change the use district —
Local Retail Business (O 5-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76

Public Improvements
Parks, Recreation and Properties Dept., facilities — amend Ord. 489-07
(O 1874-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

Purchases and Supplies Division
Kennedy Ave., 9314-16 & — Kennedy Ave., 9402-04 — purchase property —
storage & parking for City vehicles — Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties — Ward 4 NEF (O 69-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

Resignations
Britt, Council Member Patricia J. — Ward 6 (F 85-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Minority Health — Local Office creation — encouraging Public Health Department —
apply for a grant — Ohio Commission (R 71-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Rates — Sub Senate Bill 221 (restructure Ohio’s electric industry) — urging Ohio House
of Representatives to maintain critical safeguards (R 78-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71

Right-of-Way
Marco and Shelia Periandri — permit — public right-of-way — Justin Avenue S.W. —
fence and other backyard amenities (O 56-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Safety Department
Cleveland High Visibility Enforcement Overtime Program — grant — University Hospital
(O 57-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Cuyahoga County OVI Task Force Program — grant — University Hospitals
(O 58-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

Senate Bills
Rates — Sub Senate Bill 221 (restructure Ohio’s electric industry) —
urging Ohio House of Representatives to maintain critical safeguards
(R 78-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71

90

January 16, 2008

The City Record

57

Service Department
American Heart Association — banner — annual Heart Walk at Gateway
(O 16-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Community Development Grant (Recycle Ohio) Program 2008 — grant —
Ohio Department of Natural Resources (O 1931-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Marco and Shelia Periandri — permit — public right-of-way — Justin Avenue S.W. —
fence and other backyard amenities (O 56-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Parks, Recreation and Properties Dept., facilities — public improvement —
amend Ord. 489-07 (O 1874-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Plain Dealer Walk for Hunger, 20th Annual — permit — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
(O 76-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Rock salt — purchase — Division of Streets (O 1921-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81

Streets Division
Rock salt — purchase (O 1921-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81

Tax Abatement
Grayton Rd., 4725 — property improvements — Enterprise Zone Agreement —
Blue 22 LTD. — Economic Development (O 1978-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81

Utilities Department
Capacity Enhancement Incentive Rate Schedule — new Section 523.049 —
customer service agreement — Cleveland Public Power
(O 65-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Cleveland Public Power — issuance of bonds — financing capital costs
(O 63-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Public Power System revenue bonds — refund — issuance of bonds
(O 64-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Rates — Sub Senate Bill 221 (restructure Ohio’s electric industry) —
urging Ohio House of Representatives to maintain critical safeguards
(R 78-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71

Ward 01
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Ward 02
E. 116th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Margaret P. Tod Gregory
(O 1613-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Ward 03
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Kinsman Rd., 14101 1/2 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 12-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Ward 04
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Kennedy Ave., 9314-16 & — Kennedy Ave., 9402-04 — purchase property — storage &
parking for City vehicles — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties — NEF
(O 69-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

91

The City Record

58

January 16, 2008

Ward 05
Central Ave., 7109 — objection — liquor permit (R 7-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Community College Ave., 3609 — objection—withdraw — liquor permit (Ward 5)
(R 8-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
E. 55th St., 2165 — objection — liquor permit (R 9-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Hardy, Randell Herbert — condolence (R 89-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Outwaite Ave., 5803 & 5813 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit
(R 73-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Ward 06
Britt, Council Member Patricia J. — letter of resignation (F 85-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Buckeye Rd. & E. 116th St. (northwest corner) — change the Use District —
Local Retail Business District (O 1066-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Mitchell, Council Member Mamie J. — oath of office (F 86-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Ward 07
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Ward 08
African American Cultural Garden — establish & develop — grant agreement —
United Black Fund of Greater Cleveland Inc. — Parks, Recreation
and Properties (O 15-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
St. Clair Ave., 10109-11 — objection — liquor permit (R 11-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79

Ward 09
Baker, James — condolence (R 95-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Woodside Ave., 12713-17 — transfer — liquor permit (F 83-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

Ward 10
E. 152nd St. & Ivanhoe Rd. (lands between) & south of St. Clair Ave. —
change the Use Districts — Local Retail Business District
(O 1267-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
E. 152nd St., 657 — objecting — liquor permit (R 10-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Keely-Coleman, Christine Carmicle — condolence (R 90-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Moss, John W. — condolence (R 92-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Summers, Sr., Christopher Eugene — condolence (R 91-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Ward 11
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

92

January 16, 2008

The City Record

59

Ward 12
E. 80th St. (west side) — north of Aetna Rd. — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
(O 2022-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Ward 13
American Heart Association — banner — annual Heart Walk at Gateway
(O 16-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Atrium Office Plaza Complex — acquisition and redevelopment — contract —
The K & D Group, Inc. — Community Development (O 59-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Holtkamp, David — condolence (R 88-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Old River Rd., 1204 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 72-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Plain Dealer Walk for Hunger, 20th Annual — permit — Hunger Network of Greater Cleveland
(O 76-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Prospect Ave., 612 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 6-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
W. 11th St. & Fairfield Ave. (northwest corner) — change the use district —
Local Retail Business (O 5-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
W. 25th St., 1871 — objection — liquor license (R 75-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

Ward 14
Clark Ave. (south) — between Fulton Rd. & W. 34th Pl.) — change the zoning —
Local Retail Business, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District
(O 2024-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Clark Ave., 3726 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 13-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Storer Ave., 5004 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 14-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
W. 25th St., 1871 — objection — liquor license (R 75-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

Ward 15
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Spring Rd., 1503 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit (R 74-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

Ward 16
Broadview Rd., 4661 — new — liquor permit (F 82-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Brookpark Rd., 3500 — transfer — liquor permit (F 84-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Ward 17
Holtkamp, David — condolence (R 88-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Ward 18
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Midland Steel Property (10615 Madison Ave.) — public improvement — amend Ord. No. 1280-06
(O 60-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

93

The City Record

60

January 16, 2008

Ward 19
Emerald Development & Economic Network, Inc. — re: Northridge Commons
Public Notification Letter — (F 81-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Midland Steel Property (10615 Madison Ave.) — public improvement — amend Ord. No. 1280-06
(O 60-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Ward 20
Grayton Rd., 4725 — property improvements — Enterprise Zone Agreement —
Blue 22 LTD. — Economic Development (O 1978-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Holtkamp, David — condolence (R 88-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Marco and Shelia Periandri — permit — public right-of-way — Justin Avenue S.W. —
fence and other backyard amenities (O 56-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Ward 21
Jimenez, Ines — appreciation (R 97-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Olivera, Rocko — condolence (R 93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Playground Improvement Project — agreement — Young Men’s Christian Association of
Cleveland Ohio, Inc. — NEF (O 70-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Rivera DeJesus, Engracia — condolence (R 94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

Young Men’s Christian Association
Playground Improvement Project — agreement — Young Men’s Christian Association of
Cleveland Ohio, Inc. — Ward 21 NEF (O 70-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69

Zoning
Buckeye Rd. & E. 116th St. (northwest corner) — change the Use District —
Local Retail Business District (O 1066-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Clark Ave. (south) — between Fulton Rd. & W. 34th Pl.) — change the zoning —
Local Retail Business, a ‘C’ Area District and a ‘2’ Height District
(O 2024-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
E. 152nd St. & Ivanhoe Rd. (lands between) & south of St. Clair Ave. —
change the Use Districts — Local Retail Business District
(O 1267-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
E. 80th St. (west side) — north of Aetna Rd. — change the zoning — Semi-Industry
(O 2022-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
W. 11th St. & Fairfield Ave. (northwest corner) — change the use district —
Local Retail Business (O 5-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76

94

