The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

June the Fourth, Two Thousand and Eight

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
32
33
36
38
39
41
41
41
42
42
43

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Nina Turner..................................................16204 Sunny Glen Avenue
44128
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Angel Guzman, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley; Councilman Nina Turner.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue

POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

AUDIT COMMITTEE – Robert Rawson, Chairman; Yvette Ittu, Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis,
Don Neebes, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.

CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Laura M. Bala, Chair; Jennifer
Coleman, Vice Chair; Robert N. Brown, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Thomas
Coffey, Robert Jackimowicz; Ari Maron, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John
Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert Keiser, Secretary.

CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
14B
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12A
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles Patton, Jr.
12B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Michael John Ryan
12C
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak –
Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 4, 2008

Vol. 95

No. 4930

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JUNE 2, 2008
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority

10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Coats,
Cummins,
Kelley,
Mitchell, Polensek, Santiago, Turner.

RECORDING OF VOTE
OF ABSENT MEMBER
File No. 905-08.

of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at

www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Cummins, Keane, Kelley,
Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Keane,
Lewis, Reed, Zone.

216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Turner.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Brancatelli, Chair;
Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley, Mitchell, Reed, Santiago.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek, Reed, Santiago, White.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Keane, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Lewis, Pierce
Scott, Reed, White.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Coats,
Conwell, Pierce Scott, Turner, Westbrook, White, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cimperman, Cummins, Coats,
Lewis, Westbrook. Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson,
Mitchell.
WEDNESDAY—Alternating
10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Keane,
Vice
Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Mitchell, Turner, Westbrook.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee:
Westbrook,
Chair;
Kelley,
Mitchell,
Pierce
Scott,
Santiago,
Sweeney, White.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, June 2, 2008
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson,
Keane, Kelley, Mitchell, Polensek,
Reed, Pierce Scott, Sweeney, Turner,
Westbrook, White and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson; Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff; Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer; Valerie J. McCall, Chief
of Government Affairs; Monyka S.
Price, Chief of Education; Maureen
Harper, Chief of Communications;
Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary;
Debra Linn Talley; Director of Office
of Equal Opportunity; and Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Interim Director
Withers, Directors Smith, Wasik,
Carroll, Flask, Rybka, Hutchinson,
Nichols, Fumich, Griffen and Brown.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
a prayer was offered by Rev.
Ronald Lee, Pastor of Calvary Congregational Church, located at 4424
Lee Road in Ward 1. Pledge of Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Reed, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Brady.

1065

June 2, 2008
TO: Patricia J. Britt, Clerk of Council
FROM: Joe Santiago, Member of
Council, Ward 14
RE: City Council Meeting
In accordance with Rule 22 of the
Rules of Council, I hereby request
that my vote be recorded as a yea
on the legislation passed and adopted by Cleveland City Council on
May 19, 2008.
Thank you.
Received.
RECORD OF VOTE
In accordance with the request of
Council Member Joseph Santiago
and Rule 22 of the Rules of Council, the vote on the following ordinances and resolutions passed and
adopted by Cleveland City Council
on May 19, 2008, is changed as follows:
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 823-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 824-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADDOPTED
Res. No. 826-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 827-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Res. No. 831-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1614-07
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 268-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 641-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 678-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.

The City Record

4
Ord. No. 683-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 730-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 746-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 747-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 748-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 749-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 750-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 751-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 752-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
Ord. No. 753-08
Yeas 19. Nays 0.

FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 906-08.
Re: Stock Transfer Application —
6310018 — Nasser Inc., 12901 Shaw
Avenue. (Ward 10). Received.
File No. 907-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 18081260005 — Crawl Inn,
Inc., d.b.a. Fields, 731-33 East 185th
Street, 1st Floor. (Ward 11). Received.
File No. 908-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 000560 — AA Kwik Check
Deli, LLC., d.b.a. AA Kwik Check
Deli, 3548 Fulton Road. (Ward 14).
Received.
File No. 909-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application — 2201526 —
District LLC, 3463 Fulton Road.
(Ward 14). Received.
File No. 910-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 3505934 — Hala Foods,
LLC, 1503 Spring Road, 1st Floor.
(Ward 15). Received.
File No. 911-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 8916683 — Donna L. Peters,
11619 Lorain Road. (Ward 19). Received.
File No. 912-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 6840395 — 3585 LLC, d.b.a.
QS Gas & Go, 3585 West 117th Street.
(Ward 19). Received.
File No. 913-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application — 35665300190 — Handee
Marts, Inc., d.b.a. 7 Eleven 56, 4075
Rocky River Drive. (Ward 21). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:

Res. No. 914-08—Betty June Brown.
Res. No. 915-08 — Virginia Royal
Cinnamon.
Res. No. 916-08 — Edna Josephine
Wilson Colwell.
Res. No. 917-08—Anthony Dewayne
Foster.
Res. No. 918-08 — Bertha Johnson
Walker.
Res. No. 919-08—Rose Mary Carter
Crite.
Res. No. 920-08—Carlton Rush.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 921-08—Charita L. Crockrom.
Res. No. 922-08—Roye L. Kidd.
Res. No. 923-08—Jerry Sheehan
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 924-08—Abdullah H. Razzaq.
Res. No. 925-08—Imam Al-Hajj
Talib Abdur-Rashid
Res. No. 926-08 — Dr. Muhammad
Ahmad.
Res. No. 927-08—Don Freeman.
Res. No. 928-08 — Memorial Day
Association of Greater Cleveland.
Res. No. 929-08 — Cornerstone of
Hope.
Res. No. 930-08—Albert B. Ratner.
Res. No. 931-08—Allan C. Krulak.
Res. No. 932-08—Charles A. Ratner.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 855-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into contract without
competitive bidding with Iron Mountain/National Underground Storage,
a division of Iron Mountain Information Management, Inc. for the
lease of space for the storage of
records, and the purchase of services related to the storage of
records, for a period of one year,
with a one-year option to renew,
exercisable
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Finance,
on behalf of the Clerk of the Cleveland Municipal Court, is authorized
to enter into a rental agreement with
Iron Mountain/National Underground
Storage, a division of Iron Mountain
Information Management, Inc., for
the rental of approximately 19,000
cubic feet of space for the storage of
records of the Cleveland Municipal
Court. The rental agreement shall be
for a period of one year commencing

1066

June 4, 2008
January 1, 2009, with one option to
renew for an additional one-year
period, exercisable by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the rental agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain such
terms and conditions as the Director
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That it is determined
that the within commodities are noncompetitive and incidental to the
lease of space authorized by Section
1 of this ordinance, and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Iron Mountain/National Underground
Storage, a division of Iron Mountain
Information Management, Inc. Therefore, the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, is authorized to make a written requirement contract with Iron
Mountain/National Underground Storage, a division of Iron Mountain
Information Management, Inc. for
miscellaneous services related to the
storage or records, such as the provision of storage boxes, filing, file
retrieval, file delivery, faxing, photocopying, data entry, the destruction of records, and other file request services, for a period of one
year, with one option to renew for
an additional one-year period, exercisable by the Director of Finance,
and cancelable on thirty days written notice by the director, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Cleveland Municipal Court.
Section 4. That the cost of the
rental agreement and related services and the other contract or contracts authorized by this ordinance
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 181373)
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 856-08.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 3-08,
passed January 28, 2008, relating to
authorization to purchase software
licenses, updates, upgrades, enhancements, training, technical support,
maintenance, and repairs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

June 4, 2008
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 181.102 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 3-08, passed January
28, 2008, is amended to read as follows:
Section 181.102
Authorization to
Purchase Software Licenses, Updates,
Upgrades,
Enhancements,
Training, Technical Support, Maintenance, and Repairs
(a) When a director has been
authorized by ordinance to acquire
software, the director of the department for which the software was
acquired or the Director of Finance
is authorized to enter into one or
more standard purchase or requirement contracts duly let to the lowest and best bidder as provided in
Section 181.10, for software licenses,
updates, upgrades, enhancements,
training, technical support, maintenance,
and
repair
necessary
to
implement or maintain the software.
(b) When a director has been
authorized by ordinance to acquire
software, the director of the department for which the software was
acquired or the Director of Finance
is authorized to acquire by contract
or contracts with one or more software developers or vendors or one
or more firms of software developers or vendors, software licenses,
updates, upgrades, enhancements,
training, technical support, maintenance,
and
repair
necessary
to
implement or maintain the authorized software. The selection of the
software developers or vendors shall
be made by the Board of Control on
the nomination of the director of the
department for which the software
was acquired or the Director of
Finance from lists of qualified software developers or vendors available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the director of the
department for which the software
was acquired or the Director of
Finance for the purpose of compiling the lists.
(c) When a director has been
authorized by ordinance to acquire
a software system, the director of
the department for which the system
was acquired or the Director of
Finance is authorized to execute one
or more license agreements for software needed to implement or maintain the system directly with the
firm or firms licensing the software.
(d) When a director has been
authorized to contract with a software developer or vendor, whether
specified in an authorizing ordinance or by Board of Control resolution, to acquire software, the
director of the department for which
the software is acquired or the
Director of Finance is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with the software developer or vendor for professional services necessary to perform as-needed services
to implement or maintain the software, including but not limited to,
integration,
implementation,
migration, installation, design, interfacing,
maintenance,
repair,
upgrades, enhancements, training, training registration, testing, and technical support.

The City Record
(e) The Board of Control shall fix
the compensation to be paid for the
services authorized under this ordinance which shall be paid from the
annual appropriation made for such
purpose. The contract or contracts
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the director of the
department for which the purchase
is made or the Director of Finance,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
(f) Nothing in this section shall
be construed to authorize the acquisition of new software or any professional services that, in the judgment of the Director of Finance,
would significantly expand or modify the performance characteristics
of the originally authorized software beyond the function or purpose
capabilities identified in the ordinance authorizing the initial acquisition.
Section 2. That existing Section
181.102 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 3-08, passed January 28, 2008, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 857-08.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 127.38, relating to the
expense fund for the Commissioner
of Assessments and Licenses.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 127.38 to read as follows:
Section 127.38 Expense Fund for
Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses
There shall be allowed annually
to the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses, in addition to all
salary and allowances otherwise
provided by law, the sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) on deposit to provide for reimbursement
of expenses which may be incurred
by his division in the performance
of official duties and in the furtherance of maintaining the financial integrity of the City. On order
of the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses and the Director of
Finance, the Commissioner of Accounts shall draw his warrant on
the City Treasury, payable to the
Commissioner of Assessments and
Licenses or other person as the

1067

5
order designates, for the amount as
the order requires; the amounts, not
exceeding the amount provided by
this section, to be paid out of the
general fund of the City.
Nothing shall be paid under this
section until the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses has given
bond to the City in the amount of
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00),
and the bond shall be conditioned
that he will faithfully discharge all
the duties enjoined on him, and pay
over all moneys received by him in
his official capacity. The bond shall
be deposited with the Commissioner
of Accounts. The premium on the
bond shall be paid by the City.
The Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses shall annually, on the
fifth business day of January, file
with the Commissioner of Accounts
an itemized statement, verified by
him as to the manner in which the
fund has been expended during the
preceding year. Any funds expended
during a six month period may be
replenished from an account set up
for recovery of interest on unpaid
admissions and/or parking tax so
long as the total amount expended
from the fund during any calendar
year does not exceed the amount of
the bond. If any part of the fund
remains unexpended, the funds shall
be carried over to the following year
and noted on both the current and
the following year’s itemized report.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 858-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of renovating
and repairing the Division of Printing and Reproduction facility, including their garage; authorizing
the Director of Finance to enter into
one or more public improvement contracts for the making of the improvement; authorizing the Director
to employ one or more professional
consultants to design the improvement; and to enter into various written standard purchase and requirement contracts needed in connection
with the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of renovating and repairing the Division
of Printing and Reproduction facility, including their garage, (the
“Improvement”), for the Division of
Printing and Reproduction, Depart-

6
ment of Finance, by one or more
contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding on a unit basis
for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making of the public improvement with
the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a
unit basis for the Improvement, provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of the Improvement may be
treated as a separate Improvement,
and each, or any combination, of the
trades or components may be the
subject of a separate contract on a
unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to design the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Finance
from a list of qualified consultants
available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Finance
for the purpose of compiling a list.
The compensation to be paid for the
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, and approved and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written standard purchase
contracts and written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the period of requirements to be determined by the director, for the necessary items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary to construct the
Improvement, including labor and
materials if necessary for installation, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Division of
Printing and Reproduction, Department of Finance. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines.
Section 5. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Finance may sign all

The City Record
documents with the State of Ohio or
any of its political subdivisions that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or more
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 7. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 362, 20 SF 371, 20
SF 381, 20 SF 391, 20 SF 503, 20 SF
509, and 20 SF 517, Request No.
121236.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committees on Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 859-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
solicit proposals from management
companies to provide maintenance,
operation, and management of the
City-owned common use facilities at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; and to enter into one or more
contracts with the selected entity,
for a period of four years, with two
options to renew for additional twoyear terms, exercisable by the Director of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to solicit
proposals from management companies to provide maintenance, operation, and management of the Cityowned common use facilities at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. The awards to the management
companies shall be by resolution of
the Board of Control.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
selected entity for the purposes
stated above, for a period of four
years, with two options to renew for
additional two-year terms, exercisable by the Director of Port Control
from a list of entities available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling a list. The contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract or contracts shall be paid
from the fund or funds to which are
credited
the
proceeds
generated
from the operation of the City-owned
common use facilities at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the

1068

June 4, 2008
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 860-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to Contract
No. 48042 with Standard Parking
Corporation to permit Standard Parking to perform and receive reimbursement for services associated
with managing the taxicab stand at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, for a period of one year,
with one option to renew for an
additional six-month period, exercisable by the Director of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into an amendment to Contract No.
48042 with Standard Parking Corporation (“Standard Parking”) to permit Standard Parking to perform
and receive reimbursement for services associated with managing the
taxicab stand at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, for a period of
one year effective October 1, 2007,
with one option to renew for an
additional six-month period, exercisable by the Director of Port Control.
Section 2. The cost of the services
performed under this amendment will
be treated as an operating expense
and deducted from gross revenues
collected by Standard Parking on
behalf of the Airport, under Contract
No. 48042.
Section 3. That the amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 861-08.
By Council Members Kelley, Pierce
Scott, Cimperman, Cleveland and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 573.02, 573.04, 573.05, 573.10,
and 573.99 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended and enacted by various
ordinances, relating to obstructions
within the Harbor and relating
penalty.

June 4, 2008
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the following sections of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 573.02, 573.04, and 573.05,
as amended by Ordinance No. 148454, passed June 21, 1954,
Section 573.10, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1485-00, passed June
21, 2000, and
Section 573.99, as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September
22, 1924,
are amended to read as follows:
Section 573.02
Removal of Obstructions; Notice; Enforcement
(a) Whenever the Director of Port
Control or the Harbormaster find
that it becomes necessary to cause
the removal of any obstruction
which is existing or will be placed
within the limits of the harbor, as
defined in the map of survey and
ordinance establishing the same, the
Director of Port Control or the Harbormaster shall cause an order to be
made requiring the removal of the
obstruction. The Director of Port
Control or the Harbormaster shall
cause written notice to be served, by
registered mail, on the owner of any
lot or land bounding or abutting on
the harbor line, or the agent of any
owner who may have caused the
obstruction or who may have permitted any obstruction to remain in
front of his premises, requiring him
to remove the obstruction without
delay. The notice shall describe the
obstruction and a date by which the
obstruction is to be cleared or expiration of the publication as specified
in the notice, and other information
that the Director of Port Control or
the Harbormaster deem necessary.
If the address of the owner or agent
of the owner is returned as undeliverable or otherwise insufficient
using registered mail, then service,
return, and publication shall be in
the manner provided for Revised
Code Section 727.13.
(b) If the requirements of the
notice are not observed within the
number of days from the service of
notice or expiration of the publication as specified in the notice, the
Director of Port Control or the Harbormaster shall have the obstruction
removed at the expense of the
owner, and shall report the cost of
the work described in the notice so
that it may be a lien on the property and may be collected as provided in Revised Code Section 727.33.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the Director of
Law may take any action necessary
to enforce compliance with this Section.
Section 573.04
Construction or
Repair; Notice; Enforcement
(a) Whenever the Director of Port
Control or Harbormaster finds that
a condition exists making it necessary that retaining works or structures be constructed, or any existing
works or structures, wharves, docks
or bulkheads, or any portion of the
same be repaired along the estab-

The City Record

7

lished dock lines of the Cuyahoga
River, old ship channel or the Standard Oil slip, in front of any specified parcel of land abutting such
waterway, the Director shall cause
written notice to be served on the
owners of such parcel of land, or on
the agents of the owners by registered mail. The notice shall describe
the
unsafe
condition,
either
a
description of corrective measures to
be taken or an enclosed plan to correct the condition, a date by which
the work is to be completed or expiration of the publication as specified
in the notice, and other information
that the Director deems necessary.
If the address of the owner or agent
of the owner is returned as undeliverable or otherwise insufficient
using registered mail, then service,
return and publication shall be in
the manner provided for Revised
Code Section 727.13.
(b) If the requirements of the
notice are not observed within the
number of days from the service of
notice or expiration of the publication as specified in the notice, the
Director of Port Control shall have
the work done at the expense of the
owner and under the plan attached
to the notice or as described in the
notice, and shall report the cost of
the work described in the notice so
that it may be a lien on the property and may be collected as provided in Revised Code Section 727.33.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the Director of
Law may take any action necessary
to enforce compliance with this Section.

five feet in length and not farther
apart than three and one-half feet
from center to center, each pile to
be securely anchored.
The sheet piling shall be of such
length as to extend at least thirty
feet below the City base of levels,
or such greater length as shall
effectually retain the earth or bank
from washing or sliding into the
River by reason of the action of the
current or other cause. The heads of
the anchor bolts, if secured to the
front row of piling, shall either be
countersunk into the piles or protected by a waling strip on the front
of the piles. All variations in the
height of the adjoining sections of
any dock or series of docks shall be
provided for by proper slopes or
inclines, which inclines shall not
exceed a grade of ten feet in 100
feet, and no abrupt changes of elevation shall be made. All details of
wharf, dock, pier or bulkhead construction not provided for in this
section shall be subject to the
approval of the Director of Port Control. No wharf, dock, pier, bulkhead,
protection or revetment shall be constructed, repaired or renewed along
the Cuyahoga River, the old ship
channel, the Standard Oil slip or in
or along the outer harbor and lakefront (except that portion of the
outer harbor and lakefront under
the jurisdiction of the United States
Government) without first securing
written permission from the Director, which permission shall only be
given after submitting to the Director detailed plans of the proposed
construction.

Section 573.05
Retaining Works;
Specifications
Hereafter
all
wharves,
docks,
piers
or
bulkheads
constructed,
repaired or renewed along the Cuyahoga River, old ship channel or
Standard Oil slip shall be built on
the dock lines established by Council and shall comply with the
requirements specified in this section, but the specifications contained herein shall not be construed
as a limitation upon the power of
Council to provide by resolution for
such construction or repairs as may
be necessary fully to carry out the
provisions of Sections 573.03 and
573.04. Council may by resolution
prescribe requirements for construction or repairs additional to those
specified in this section, in order
that the requirements of any particular or peculiar condition may be
met. All wharves, docks, piers or
bulkheads shall be constructed with
a sheet piling or other material
approved by the Director of Port
Control or Harbormaster forming a
sandproof joint, either tongued and
grooved or ship lap sheeting or two
courses of sheet piling driven so as
to break joints, the total thickness
of sheeting in all cases to be not
less than six inches. If this sheeting
is less than five feet from the face
of that portion nearest the channel
of the dock it shall be directly supported by at least four trimmers or
timbers placed longitudinally; two
above water and one placed about
six feet below the water line and
another at least twelve feet below
the water line; these trimmers to be
supported by piling at least forty-

Section 573.10 Responsibilities of
Abutting Property Owners
(a) Every owner or occupant of
premises abutting on the harbor
shall at all times keep the wharves
and docks, bulkheads and embankments on the premises in good
repair and safe condition. Whoever
violates this section shall be held
liable for all damages to persons or
property by reason of such unsafe
conditions or wharves and docks.
(b) No later than May 31, 2001,
every
owner
of
any
property,
whether improved or not, abutting
the Cuyahoga River from the Norfolk Southern Bridge south on the
river to the Center St. Bridge and
every owner of any property on
which alcohol is sold abutting the
Cuyahoga River or Old River, where
the vertical rise prevents egress to
the shore, shall install and maintain
at least one ladder facilitating
access from the river to the shore
per one hundred fifty linear feet
(150') of property along the shoreline, but no less than one ladder per
property. Owners of property on the
portion of Whiskey Island that
abuts the Cuyahoga River south of
the Norfolk Southern Bridge where
the vertical rise prevents egress to
the shore are excluded from the
above requirement, except for owners of property abutting the river on
which alcohol is sold. The bottom of
the ladder shall reach a depth of
two feet (2') below the mean low
water level, which is five hundred
and sixty nine and two-tenths feet
(569.2') above sea level. The top of
the ladder shall terminate no less
than one foot (1') above the mean

1069

8
high water level, which is five hundred and seventy-four and three
tenths feet (574.3') above sea level,
and shall be designed to facilitate
safe egress to the shore. The ladders
shall be constructed of durable,
marine compatible materials. All
required permits shall be obtained
for installation of the ladders and a
Certificate of Appropriateness shall
be obtained from the City. The
review process for the Certificate of
Appropriateness shall include review of the design of the ladders by
the City Planning Commission and
the Division of Building and Housing. The City Planning Commission
shall refer an application for a Certificate of Appropriateness to the
local design review committee. Upon
receipt of a recommendation from
the local design review committee,
the City Planning Commission shall
review the application at the next
regularly scheduled City Planning
Commission meeting.
(c) No later than May 31, 2001,
every occupant of property, whether
improved or not, abutting the Cuyahoga River from the Norfolk Southern Bridge south on the Cuyahoga
River to the Center St. Bridge, every
occupant of any property on which
alcohol is sold abutting the Cuyahoga River or Old River, every occupant of property, whether improved
or not, abutting a deck that abuts
the Cuyahoga River from the Norfolk Southern Bridge south on the
river to the Center St. Bridge, and
every occupant of any property on
which alcohol is sold abutting a
deck that abuts the Cuyahoga River
or Old River shall provide and maintain at least one serviceable thirtyinch ring life buoy, or approved rescue line-throwing bag, per one hundred fifty linear feet (150') of property along the shoreline. Occupants
of
property
on
the
portion
of
Whiskey Island that abuts the Cuyahoga River, or that abuts a deck
that abuts the Cuyahoga River,
south
of
the
Norfolk
Southern
Bridge, are excluded from the above
requirement, except for occupants of
property abutting the river, or abutting a deck that abuts the river, on
which alcohol is sold. There shall be
no less than one ring buoy or
approved rescue line-throwing bag
per business establishment located
within the area described above. At
least seventy-five feet (75') of suitable floating line shall be attached
to each ring buoy or line-throwing
bag. The ring buoy or line-throwing
bag shall be accessible to the public at or near the bank of the river.
(d) No later than May 31, 2001,
every occupant of improved property abutting the Cuyahoga River or
Old River or abutting a deck that
abuts the Cuyahoga River or Old
River and containing a commercial
establishment selling alcohol shall
provide at least one twelve foot
(12') minimum length pole to be
used to retrieve persons or property
from the water and at least one
portable hand-held lantern of sufficient power to identify floating
objects in the water at a minimum
distance of fifty feet (50'). The pole
and portable light may be accessible to employees only.
(e) The denial of a Certificate of
Appropriateness may be appealed to

The City Record
the Board of Zoning Appeals consistent with the Charter, ordinances
and rules applicable to that Board.
(f) There shall be a chart conspicuously posted to indicate which
individuals will be responsible for
monitoring compliance of this section.
(g) Whoever violates this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
Section 573.99 Penalty
(a) Whoever violates Sections
573.01, 573.02, 573.03, 573.04 or 573.10
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which an offense
occurs or continues, after notification by the Director of Port Control
or the Harbormaster of a claim for
violation.
(b) Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty is provided shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which an offense
occurs or continues, after notification by the Director of Port Control
or the Harbormaster of a claim for
violation.
Section 2. That the following
existing sections of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Sections 573.02, 573.04, and 573.05,
as amended by Ordinance No. 148454, passed June 21, 1954,
Section 573.10, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1485-00, passed June
21, 2000, and
Section 573.99, as enacted by Ordinance No. 63410-A, passed September
22, 1924,
are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control,
Building
and
Housing,
City Planning Commission, Finance,
Law; Committees on Aviation and
Transportation, Community and Economic Development, City Planning,
Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 862-08.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to WXZ Development
to encroach into the public rights-ofway above Euclid Avenue and above
East 118th Street by installing,
using, and maintaining building
overhangs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of

1070

June 4, 2008
Council, to WXZ Development, 22710
Fairview Center Drive, #150 Fairview Park Ohio, 44126 (“Permittee”),
to encroach into the public rights-ofway above Euclid Avenue and above
East 118th Street by installing,
using, and maintaining at East
118th Street a 2.00 foot by 130.00 foot
building encroachment for overhang
of a bedroom approximately 18 feet
above grade, and at Euclid Avenue
a 4.50 foot by 115.77 foot building
encroachment for five triangular living space overhangs, approximately
18 feet above grade, at the following locations:
ENCROACHMENT OF
EAST 118TH STREET
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublots 57, 58 and 59 in F.W. Smith’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 396 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 62 of Cuyahoga County
Records and bounded and described
as follows: Beginning at the intersection of the northwesterly line of
Euclid Avenue, width varies, as
widened in AFN 200701190493 of
Cuyahoga County Records with the
easterly line of East 118th Street, 60
feet wide, (formerly Lyman Avenue); thence along the easterly line
of East 118th Street, North 14° 29'
06" West, a distance of 84.54 feet to
the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BEGINNING;
Thence continuing along the easterly line of East 118th Street, North
14° 29' 06" West, a distance of 130.00
feet to a point;
Thence South 75° 30' 54" West a
distance of 2.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 14° 29' 06" East, a
distance of 130.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 75° 30' 54" East a
distance of 2.00 feet to the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BEGINNING and
containing 260.00 square feet of land
according to a survey by Matthew
C. Neff, Ohio Professional Surveyor
#7315 of the M Neff Design Group
dated July 25, 2007 be the same more
or less but subject to all legal highways.
ENCROACHMENT OF
EUCLID AVENUE
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublots 57, 58 and 59 in F.W. Smith’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 396 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 62 of Cuyahoga County
Records and bounded and described
as follows: Beginning at the intersection of the northwesterly line of
Euclid Avenue, width varies, as
widened in AFN 200701190493 of
Cuyahoga County Records with the
easterly line of East 118th Street, 60
feet wide, (formerly Lyman Avenue); thence along the northwesterly line of Euclid Avenue, South 80
50’ 12” East, a distance of 14.47 feet
to an angle point thereon, said point
being the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF
BEGINNING;
Thence
continuing
along
the
northwesterly line of Euclid Avenue,
North 44° 03' 00" East, a distance of
114.50 feet to a point;

June 4, 2008
Thence South 45° 57' 00" East, a
distance of 4.50 feet to a point;
Thence South 44° 03' 00" West, a
distance of 114.50 feet to a point;
Thence North 45° 57' 00" West, a
distance of 4.50 feet to the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BEGINNING and
containing 515.25 square feet of land
according to a survey by Matthew
C. Neff, Ohio Professional Surveyor
#7315 of the M Neff Design Group
dated July 25, 2007 be the same more
or less but subject to all legal highways.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, Permittee has
properly
indemnified
the
City
against any loss that may result
from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 863-08.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Flats East Development, L.L.C. to encroach into the
public rights-of-way beneath Main
Avenue and beneath Front Avenue
by installing, using, and maintaining tie backs for a soil retention
system.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to issue
a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, to Flats East Development,
L.L.C., 2816 North Moreland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio, 44120 (“Per-

The City Record
mittee”), to encroach into the public
right-of-way beneath Main Avenue
and
beneath
Front
Avenue
by
installing, using, and maintaining
tie backs for a soil retention system,
at the following locations:
SOIL RETENTION SYSTEM
AT
THE EAST BANK AT THE FLATS
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original Two Acre Lot Numbers 191193, and also known as being a part
of Main Avenue, 40 feet wide, and a
part of Front Avenue, 80 feet wide,
and also being further bounded and
described as the following two
parcels:

Parcel One:
Commencing at an iron pin monument found at the center line intersection of Main Avenue, 40 feet
wide, and West 10th Street, of which
said monument bears North 55° 38’
38” East, 404.06 feet from an iron pin
monument found at the center line
intersection of aforementioned Main
Avenue, 40 feet wide, and Old River
Road, 66 feet wide, thence North 55°
38' 38" East along the center line of
said Main Avenue, 40 feet wide, a
distance of 32.99 feet to a point
therein, said point also being the
TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING for
the area of land hereinafter described, thence clockwise along the
following four courses and distances;
1. Thence North 34° 12' 51" East,
a distance of 20.00 feet to an angle
point;
2. Thence North 55° 38' 38" East,
a distance of 361.63 feet to a point
on the northerly line of Main Avenue, 40 feet wide, and the southwesterly corner of land now or formerly owned by McSweeney Family
LLC, Permanent Parcel Number 10112-003;
3. Thence South 34° 24' 29" East,
a distance of 20.00 feet to a point in
the center line of said Main Avenue,
40 feet wide;
4. Thence South 55° 38' 38" West
along the center line of said Main
Avenue, 40 feet wide, a distance of
361.70 feet to the True Point of
Beginning,
and
containing
7,233
Square Feet (0.1661 acre) of land,
more of less, and subject to all easements, restrictions, and covenants of
record.
Parcel Two:
Commencing at an iron pin monument found at the center line intersection of West 9th Street, 99 feet
wide, and Front Avenue, 80 feet
wide, of which said monument bears
North 65° 41' 12" East, 514.76 feet
from an iron pin monument found at
the center line intersection of aforementioned Front Avenue, 80 feet
wide, and West 10th Street, Thence
South 65° 41' 12" West along the
center line of said Front Avenue, 80
Feet wide, a distance of 213.27 feet
to a point therein, said point also
being the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING for the area of land hereinafter described, thence along the
following five courses and distances;
1. Thence South 34° 29' 17" East,
a distance of 32.51 feet to a point on
the southerly line of Front Avenue,
80 feet wide, the northwesterly corner of land now or formerly owned

1071

9
by Front-9th Street Properties LLC,
Permanent Parcel Number 101-12-001
& 002, and the northeasterly corner
of land now or formerly owned by
FED/Main Street LLC, Permanent
Parcel Number 101-12-007;
2. Thence South 65° 41' 12" West
along the southerly line of said
Front Avenue, 80 feet wide, and
along the northerly line of said
FED/Main Street LLC, a distance of
274.24 feet to a point;
3. Thence North 24° 19' 35" West,
a distance of 80.00 feet to a point on
the northerly line of aforementioned
Front Avenue, 80 feet wide, and a
point on the southerly line of land
now or formerly owned by Flats
East Development LLC, Permanent
Parcel Number 101-01-005;
4. Thence North 65° 41' 12" East
along the northerly line of said
Front Avenue, 80 feet wide, and
along the southerly line of said
Flats East Development LLC, and
its northeasterly prolongation, a distance of 259.90 feet to a point in the
southerly line of Parcel “C” of a Lot
Split, as recorded in Volume 355 of
maps, pages 50-51 of Cuyahoga
County Deed Records, Permanent
Parcel Number 101-01-013;
5. Thence South 34° 29' 17" East,
a distance of 48.77 feet to the True
Point of Beginning, and containing
21,365 Square Feet (0.4905 acre) of
land, more or less, and subject to all
easements,
restrictions,
and
covenants of record.
Basis of Bearing is the Ohio State
Plane
Coordinate
System,
North
Zone, NAD 83
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That Permittee may
assign the permit only with the
prior written consent of the Director
of Public Service. That the encroaching structure(s) permitted by this
ordinance shall conform to plans
and specifications approved by the
Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That Permittee shall
obtain all other required permits,
including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the
encroachment(s).
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall
incorporate such additional provisions as the director determines
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest. The permit shall be
issued only when, in the opinion of
the Director of Law, Permittee has
properly
indemnified
the
City
against any loss that may result
from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 4. That the permit shall
reserve to the City reasonable right
of entry to the encroachment location(s).
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

10
Ord. No. 864-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Public Utilities Commission of
Ohio for the Hazardous Materials
Training Program; and authorizing
one or more contracts with Cleveland State University to implement
the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $66,145.60, and
any other funds that become available during the grant term, from the
Public Utilities Commission of Ohio,
to conduct the Hazardous Materials
Training Program; that the Director
is authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
award letter and grant agreement
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the award letter
and grant agreement for the grant,
File No. 864-08-A, made a part of this
ordinance as if fully rewritten, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation, including the
obligation of the City of Cleveland
to provide cash matching funds in
the amount of $16,546.40 from Fund
No. 01-600301-639905 and 10 SF 526, is
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Cleveland
State University to provide the training as described in the file.
Section 5. That the contract or
contracts shall be prepared by the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds which are credited
the grant proceeds and cash match
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 865-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County for the Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection Program.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $150,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from Cuyahoga County to conduct
the Law Enforcement Terrorism
Protection (“LETPP”) Program; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated for the purposes described in the summary for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No. 865-08-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 866-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to apply for and accept a grant
from the U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Assistance,
for the 2008 Bulletproof Vest Grant,
and authorizing the Director of
Public Safety to enter into one or
more requirement contracts for the
purchase of equipment necessary to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $203,000.00,
and any other funds that become
available during the grant term,
from the U.S. Department of Justice,
Bureau of Justice Assistance, to conduct
the
2008
Bulletproof
Vest
Grant; that the Director of Public
Safety is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the application submis-

1072

June 4, 2008
sion contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the application
submission for the grant, File No.
866-08-A, made a part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, including the obligation of the City to
provide $203,000.00 in cash matching funds from Fund Nos. 10 SF 025,
10 SF 027, and 10 SF 049, as presented to the Finance Committee of
this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation, is approved in
all
respects
and
shall
not
be
changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant term of the necessary
items of equipment necessary to
implement the grant, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of the initial purchase,
which
purchase,
together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies under a
requisition against the contract or
contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That the costs of the
contracts authorized in this ordinance shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under this
ordinance and from the cash match.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.

June 4, 2008
Ord. No. 867-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Office of Criminal Justice
Services for the 2007 State Byrne
Memorial Justice Assistance Grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $75,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the Ohio Office of Criminal
Justice Services to conduct the 2007
State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (“JAG”); that the Director is authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds under the
grant; and that the funds are appropriated for the purposes described in
the subgrant application for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the subgrant application for the grant, File No. 867-08A, made a part of this ordinance as
if fully rewritten, as presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the amount
of $25,000 from Fund Nos. 10 SF 025,
10 SF 027, and 10 SF 049, is approved
in all respects and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 868-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
enter into one or more contracts
with Kronos Incorporated for professional services necessary to maintain the current time and attendance
workforce system, including support,
for a period of one year, with two
options to renew for additional oneyear periods, exercisable by the
Director of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with Kronos Incorporated for professional
services necessary to maintain the
current time and attendance workforce system, including support, for
a period of one year, with two
options to renew for additional oneyear periods, exercisable by the
Director of Public Safety, on the
basis of its proposal dated April 11,
2008, in the total sum of $47,819.64,
for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety. The contract
or contracts shall be paid from Fund
No. 01-600201-661200, Request No.
160289.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 869-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 8 of Ordinance No. 531-07,
passed April 23, 2007, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1946-07, passed November 26, 2007, relating to purchasing
property at 1550 Superior Avenue to
develop a transitional housing facility for men, authorizing a purchase
agreement with Lake Erie Motel,
Inc. for the acquisition of furniture
and fixtures; and authorizing the
public improvement of renovating
the facility at 1550 Superior Avenue.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 8 of Ordinance No. 531-07, passed April 23,
2007, as amended by Ordinance No.
1946-07, passed November 26, 2007, is
amended to read as follows:
Section 8. That the total aggregate costs of the property acquisition, purchase agreement, rehabilitation and relocation payments authorized shall not exceed $3,579,000 and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 13 SF
610 and 13 SF 929, Request Nos.
149543 and 178642.
Section 2. That existing Section 8
of Ordinance No. 531-07, passed April
23, 2007, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1946-07, passed November 26,
2007, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

1073

11
Ord. No. 870-08.
By Council Members Polensek,
Pierce Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase property
for future redevelopment at 789 East
157th Street, 1491 East 173rd Street,
and 1452 Clermont, for the Department of Community Development;
and authorizing the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies to convey
the property to Collinwood Nottingham Villages Development Corporation, or its designee, which is not
needed for public use.
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
purchase of property located at 789
East 157th Street, 1491 East 173rd
Street, and 1452 Clermont for future
redevelopment; and
Whereas, the Director of Community Development has requested the
sale of the property to Collinwood
Nottingham Villages Development
Corporation, or its designee (the
“Redeveloper”) which is not needed
for public use, for the public purpose of future redevelopment of the
property; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to
purchase the following described
property for future redevelopment:
(789 East 157th Street)
P. P. No. 115-24-094
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being the
Northerly 36 feet of Sublot No. 80
and the Southerly 4 feet of the
Sublot No. 81 in the Ruple Heir’s second Subdivision of part of Original
Euclid Township Lot No. 42 in the
Tract No. 10, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 11 of Maps,
Page
52
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land having a frontage of
40 feet on the Easterly side of East
157th
Street
(formerly
Adelbert
Street) and extending back of equal
width 150 feet deep as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
(1491 East 173rd Street)
P. P. No. 116-25-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
102 on the Elworthy-Helwick Company’s Home Owners Allotment of
part of Original Euclid Township
Tract No. 15, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 58 of Maps,
Page
12
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, as appears by said plat.
(1452 Clermont)
P. P. No. 116-29-134
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

12
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
111 in the S.H. Kleinman’s St. Clair
Heights Allotment of part of Original Euclid Township Tract No. 15,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 46 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being a
parcel of land 40 feet front on the
Southwesterly
side
of
Clermont
Road, N.E., and extending back 82.29
feet on the Northwesterly line, 83.61
feet on the Southeasterly line, and
having a rear line of 40.02 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the
City of Cleveland all necessary documents to acquire and to convey
the property and to employ and pay
all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental audits, and all other costs
necessary for the acquisition of the
property.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for this property shall not
exceed $1.00, and other valuable consideration, determined to be fair
market value.
Section 4. That all costs of acquisition of land shall be paid from
Fund No. 14.
Section 5. That this Council finds
that the conveyance to the Redeveloper constitutes a public use of the
property for the purposes of redevelopment.
Section 6. That at the direction of
the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to convey the property
previously described in this ordinance to the Redeveloper, for $1.00,
and other valuable consideration,
which is determined to be fair market value by the Board of Control,
taking into account all restrictions,
reversionary interests and similar
encumbrances placed by the City of
Cleveland
in
the
deed
of
conveyance.
Section 7. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain necessary provisions,
including restrictive reversionary
interests as may be specified by
the Board of Control or Director of
Law, which shall protect the parties as their respective interests
require and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection of any advertising signs or
billboards except permitted identification signs.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 871-08.
By Council Members Brancatelli,
Pierce Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a development agreement with FBE Inc. for
the Morgana East Project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a development
agreement with FBE Inc. to assist
with the development of residential
and commercial property located on
East 71st to East 74th Streets between Aetna and Union Avenue and
known as Morgana East Project.
Section 2. That the Directors of
Community Development and Law,
and such appropriate City officials
are authorized to execute the document and take such other actions as
may be necessary or appropriate in
connection with carrying out the
terms of the development agreement.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 872-08.
By Council Members Zone, Pierce
Scott, Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the public improvement of constructing infrastructure and parking improvements along Detroit Avenue to implement the Gordon Square Arts District; authorizing the Director of
Community Development or the Director of Public Service, as appropriate,
to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement; and authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire any
real property necessary to make the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of constructing infrastructure and parking
improvements along Detroit Avenue
to implement the Gordon Square
Arts District, for the Department of
Community Development, by one or
more contracts duly let to the low-

1074

June 4, 2008
est responsible bidder or bidders
after competitive bidding on a unit
basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Public Service, as appropriate, is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts for the making of the public improvement with
the lowest responsible bidder or bidders after competitive bidding on a
unit basis for the improvement, provided, however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of the improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of the
trades or components may be the
subject of a separate contract on a
unit basis.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized to acquire the real property
necessary to make the improvement
authorized above. The consideration
to be paid for the property shall not
exceed fair market value.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Public Service, as appropriate, is authorized to execute on
behalf of the City all documents necessary to acquire real property and
to employ and pay all fees for title
companies, surveys, escrows, appraisers, any relocation assistance, and
all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the property.
Section 5. That the cost of the
improvement and property acquisition authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 363, 20 SF 372, 20
SF 379, 20 SF 393, and 20 SF 505,
Request No. 178643.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
City Planning Commission, Finance,
Law; Committees on Community and
Economic
Development,
Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 873-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement
Ordinance
No.
1979-07,
passed December 3, 2007, by adding
a new whereas clause, relating to
authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract with Blue 22 LTD. to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the property acquisition and new building construction
located at 4725 Grayton Road and
other associated costs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

June 4, 2008
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 197907, passed December 3, 2007, is supplemented by adding a new first
Whereas clause to read as follows:
Whereas, by letter dated May 29,
2008, the City of Cleveland provided
the City of Bay Village with a
notice of Blue 22 LTD’s intent to
relocate required by Section 5709.69
of the Revised Code. That notice
was provided to the municipality
thirty days prior to the first public
hearing of this ordinance; and
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 877-08.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance to change
the name of Glenview Field in Ward
8 to Roosevelt Kirby Field.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the name of Glenview Field be changed to Roosevelt
Kirby Field and that the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized and directed to take the
necessary action to affect said name
change and to post the proper signs
at said playground.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 887-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Central Avenue to
Good Hope Baptist Church.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of

The City Record
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Good
Hope Baptist Church.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-24-015
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublots Nos. 26 and 27 in William &
Lewis Brooker’s Subdivision of part
of Original 100 Acre Lot No. 336 as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Subdivision in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
46
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Northerly side of
Central Avenue S.E. at the Southwest corner of said Sublot No. 27;
thence Easterly along the Northerly
side of Central Avenue S.E. 57 feet;
thence Northerly parallel with the
Westerly line of said Sublot No. 27,
160 feet; thence Westerly parallel
with the Northerly line of Central
Avenue S.E., 57 feet to the Westerly line of Sublot No. 27; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
said Sublot No. 27, 160 feet to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

1075

13
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 888-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Scoville Avenue to
Shiloh Baptist Church.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Shiloh Baptist Church.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 124-03-013
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and bounded and described as
follows: and known as being Sublot
No. 16 in the James Parker Re-Subdivision of part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 331, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 22, Page 24 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
being 40 feet front on the Southerly
side of Scovill Avenue, S.E., and extending back of equal width along
the Easterly side of East 57th Street,
120 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market

14
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 889-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Woodhill Road and
Holton Avenue to Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 126-25-002
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 1, Hower Subdivision, of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot Nos. 424 and 425, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County

The City Record
Records, and also part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lot No. 425,
together forming a parcel of land
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
Woodhill Road, S.E. (formerly Newburgh Street) at the Northeasterly
corner of land conveyed to Margaret
Zoldak, by deed dated January 5,
1940, recorded in Volume 5046, Page
129 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence Northerly along the Westerly line of Woodhill Road, S.E., 43.50
feet to the Northeasterly corner of
land conveyed to Gustav Strelau, by
deed dated March 13, 1889, and
recorded in Volume 440, Page 456 of
Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Westerly along the Northerly line of
land so conveyed, about 140 feet to
the northwesterly corner thereof;
thence Southerly along the Westerly line of land so conveyed, about
44 feet to the Northwesterly corner
of land conveyed to Margaret Zoldak, as aforesaid; thence Easterly
along the Northerly line of land so
conveyed to Margaret Zoldak, to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 126-25-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio: And known as being all of
Sublot No. 2 and the Southerly 40
feet of Sublot No. 1 in Elizabeth and
Jeremiah M. Hower’s Subdivision of
a part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot Nos. 424 and 425, as shown by
the recorded plat of said subdivision
in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 2 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
said
Sublot No. 2 and Southerly 40 feet of
Sublot No. 1 is described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeast corner
of Sublot No. 2; thence Northeasterly along the Southeasterly line of
said Sublot Nos. 1 and 2, 86 feet;
thence Northwesterly along a line
parallel with the Southerly line of
Sublot No. 1 to a point in the Northerly line of Sublot No. 1; thence
along said Northerly line to the
northwest corner thereof; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
said Sublot Nos. 1 and 2, 82.27 feet
to the Southwest corner of Sublot
No. 2; thence Southeasterly along
the Southerly line of said Sublot No.
2, 170-3/12 feet to the place of beginning, and forming a parcel of land
having a frontage of 86 feet on the
Westerly side of Woodhill Road S.E.
(formerly Woodland Hills Avenue),
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being part of
Sublot No. 1 in Elizabeth and Jeremiah M. Hower’s Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
Nos. 424 and 425, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
2
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
Woodhill Road, S.E., (formerly Newburgh Street) at a point which is
distant 40 feet Northerly measured
along said Westerly line from the
Southeasterly corner of said Sublot
No. 1, said point being also the
Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to Gustav Strelau by deed

1076

June 4, 2008
dated March 13, 1889 and recorded
in Volume 440, Page 456 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Northerly along said Westerly line of
Woodhill Road (S.E.) 6 inches;
thence Westerly and parallel with
the Southerly line of land so conveyed to Gustav Strelau to the Westerly line thereof; thence Southerly
along the Westerly line of land so
conveyed to Gustav Strelau to the
Southwesterly corner thereof; thence
Easterly along the Southerly line of
land so conveyed 148 feet to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P. P. No. 126-25-004
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
3. in Elizabeth Hower’s Subdivision
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot Nos. 424 and 425, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 30 feet front on
the Westerly side of Woodhill Road
S.E. (formerly Woodland Hills Avenue), and extending back 170 feet,
4 inches deep on the Northerly line,
148 feet, 4 inches deep on the
Southerly line, and 88 feet, 7-1/2
inches wide in the rear, as appears
by said plat.
P. P. No. 126-25-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot
No. 4 in the Elizabeth and S. M.
Hower’s Subdivision of part of Original 100 Acre Lot Nos. 424 and 425,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 2 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Northerly side of
Holton Avenue, S.E., and extending
back 171.75 feet on the Easterly line,
171.62 feet on the Westerly line, and
having a rear line of 40 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of

June 4, 2008
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 890-08.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Cedar Avenue to
Dionne Thomas Carmichel.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Dionne Thomas Carmichel.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-27-022
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublots Nos. 12 and 13 in H.H. Stillson’s Allotment of part of Original
One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 336 and
339, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 13 of Maps, Page 58 of
Cuyahoga County Records, bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the
Northerly line of Cedar Avenue, S.E.,
95 feet Westerly fromt he Northwest
corner of Cedar Avenue, S.E., and
East 79th Street (formerly Madison
Avenue); thence Northerly at right
angles to the Northerly line of Cedar
Avenue, S.E., 119.73 feet; thence
Westerly parallel with the Northerly line of Cedar Avenue, S.E., 35
feet; thence South 119.73 feet parallel with the first described line to
the Northerly line of Cedar Avenue,
S.E.; thence Easterly 35 feet along
the Northerly line of Cedar Avenue,
S.E., to the place of beginning, as

The City Record
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 891-08.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties to lease certain property located on a portion of Emery
Playfield to the Free Methodist Annual Conference of Ohio, Inc. to provide
parking for their church, for a term
of twenty years.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property known as
Emery Playfield, located, a portion
of which is not needed for public
use; and
Whereas, the Free Methodist Annual Conference of Ohio, Inc. has
proposed to lease the property from
the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Parks,

1077

15
Recreation and Properties is authorized to lease to the Free Methodist
Annual Conference of Ohio, Inc.
(“Lessees”), a portion of the parking
lot at Emery Playfield, which is not
needed for public use, for the term
of the lease.
Section 2. That the term of the
lease authorized by this ordinance
shall not exceed 20 years.
Section 3. That Lessee shall maintain the property and in exchange
the property described above shall
be leased for $1.00 and other valuable consideration, which is determined to be fair market value.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize
the
Lessees
to
make
improvements to the leased premises subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain any terms and conditions as are required to protect the
interests of the City.
Section 6. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
the Director of Law, and other
appropriate City officials are authorized to execute any other documents and certificates, and take any
other actions which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 896-08.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to lease approximately 2.5
acres of land located within 3418 Crescent Avenue to St. Ignatius High
School, for a term of fifty years, with
two options to renew for additional
twenty-five year periods, for the purpose of neighborhood development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property located at
3418 Crescent Avenue, portions of
which are not needed for public use;
and
Whereas, St. Ignatius High School
has proposed to lease approximately 2.5 acres from the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Economic
Development is authorized to lease
approximately 2.5 acres of land
located within 3418 Crescent Avenue
to St. Ignatius High School (“Les-

16
see”), which is not needed for public use for the term of the lease and
is more fully described in the file
listed below.
Section 2. That the term of the
lease authorized by this ordinance
shall not exceed fifty years, with
two options to renew for additional
twenty-five year periods, exercisable
by the Director of Economic Development.
Section 3. That the property described above shall be leased at fair
market value determined by the
Board of Control.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize the Lessees to make improvements to the leased premises
subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall be substantially in the form
attached in File No. 896-08-A, and
may contain any additional terms
and conditions as are required to
protect the interests of the City.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development, the Director
of Law, and other appropriate City
officials are authorized to execute
any other documents and certificates, and take any other actions
which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the lease authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 7. That the lease payments
will be deposited into Fund No. 17
SF 965.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 897-08.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman, Cleveland and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 699A.011 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 286-05,
passed March 28, 2005, relating to
defining Community Entertainment
Districts.
Whereas, Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, located at 5300
Riverside Drive, Cleveland, Ohio
44181-0009, has submitted a written
request dated June 2, 2008, to the
Mayor’s Office for designation of the
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport Community Entertainment
District, particularly the Main Terminal and Concourses A, B, C, and
D, under the procedures outlined in
Chapter 699A of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, such request is accompanied by a map identifying the boundaries of the proposed District; and
Whereas, the City Planning Commission has determined that the proposed District meets the criteria for
designation contained in Chapter
699A of the Codified Ordinances of
the City of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 699A.011 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 286-05, passed March
28, 2005, is amended to read as follows:
Section 699A.011 Districts Defined
Community Entertainments Districts are limited to the following
defined areas of the City of Cleveland and meet all the requirements
of Section 699A.01 of this chapter:
Central
Business
District.
(a)
Located within the Central Business
District.
(b) Waterloo. Beginning in the
centerline of East 152nd Street at its
intersection with the centerline of
the Lakeland Freeway, also known
as Interstate Route 90;
Thence Northerly along the centerline of East 152nd Street to its
intersection with the westerly prolongation of the northerly line of
sublot no. 10 in C.W. Moses Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 11 of Maps, Page 35 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along said prolongation and along the Northerly
line of sublot no. 10, to the Easterly line thereof;
Thence Southerly along said Easterly line, to its intersection with the
Southeasterly line of sublot no. 16 in
said subdivision;
Thence Northeasterly along said
Southeasterly line and its Northeasterly prolongation, to its intersection with the centerline of Shiloh
Road, N.E.;
Thence Northwesterly along the
centerline of Shiloh Rd., N.E. to its
intersection with the Southwesterly
prolongation of the Southeasterly
line of sublot no. 7 in the H.F. Ball
and G.H. Prentice Subdivision as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 31 of Maps, Page 16 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Northeasterly along said
Southwesterly prolongation and the
Southeasterly line of said sublot no.
7, to the Southwesterly line of sublot
no. 12 in said subdivision;
Thence Northwesterly along said
Southwesterly line and its Northwesterly prolongation, to the centerline of Prentice Court, N.E.;
Thence Easterly along said centerline, to its Easterly terminus;
Thence Northwesterly along the
Easterly terminus line of Prentice
Court, N.E. to its intersection with
the Southerly line of sublot no. 26 in
Nelson Moses Subdivision as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 10
of Maps, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along the Southerly line of said Subdivision, to its
intersection with a Northwesterly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to
Tilton & Tilton, Inc. by deed dated
November 29, 2002 and recorded as
Auditor’s File No. 200211290363;
Thence Northeasterly along said
Northwesterly line, to its intersection with the Easterly line of sublot
no. 23 in said Nelson Moses Subdivision;

1078

June 4, 2008
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line and the Northerly prolongation thereof to its intersection
with the centerline of Lucknow
Avenue, N.E.;
Thence Northerly along the Southerly prolongation of and the Westerly line of sublot no. 3 in said Nelson Moses Subdivision, to its intersection with the Southerly line of
sublot no. 2 in said subdivision;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line and the Easterly prolongation thereof, to its intersection with
the centerline of East 156th Street;
Thence Northerly along the centerline of East 156th Street, to its
intersection with the centerline of
Huntmere Avenue, N.E. as it runs
Easterly of East 156th Street;
Thence Easterly along the centerline of Huntmere Avenue, N.E., to its
intersection with the Northerly prolongation of the Westerly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to Daryl C.
Johnson by deed dated November 29,
2002 and recorded as Auditor’s File
No. 200211290452;
Thence Southerly along said Northerly prolongation of and Westerly
line, to its intersection with the
Northerly line of sublot no. 1 in the
Walworth Realty Company’s Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 30 of Maps, Page 23 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line, to its intersection with the
Westerly line of sublot no. 4 in said
subdivision;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line, to its intersection with the
Northerly line of Fordham Court,
N.E., now vacated;
Thence Easterly along said Northerly line, to its intersection with the
Northerly prolongation of the Westerly line of sublot no. 5 in J.B. &
M.B. Stevens Allotment as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 9 of
Maps, Page 30 of Cuyahoga County
Records;
Thence Southerly along said Northerly prolongation and Westerly line
and along the Southerly prolongation of said Westerly line, to the
centerline of Arcade Avenue, N.E.;
Thence Westerly along said centerline, to its intersection with the
Northerly prolongation of the Westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to William T. Pitman by
deed dated November 26, 1999 and
recorded
as
Auditor’s
File
No.
199911260126;
Thence Southerly along said Northerly prolongation of and Westerly
line, to its intersection with the
Westerly line of a parcel of land
conveyed to Christ the King Church
of God in Christ Holiness by deed
dated August 29, 1997 and recorded
in Volume 97-8703, Page 36 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence continuing Southerly along
said Church’s Westerly line, to its
intersection with the Westerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to
Daniel Goolsby by deed dated April
30, 1999 and recorded as Auditor’s
File Number 199904301067;
Thence continuing Southerly along
said Goolsby’s Westerly line, to its
intersection with the Northerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to
Shawanna M. Underwoodm by deed
dated November 26, 1997 and recorded in Volume 97-12310, Page 51 of
Cuyahoga County Records;

June 4, 2008
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line, to its intersection with the
Westerly line of said Underwoodm’s
parcel;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line and its Southerly prolongation, to its intersection with the
centerline
of
Trafaigar
Avenue,
N.E.;
Thence Easterly along said centerline, to its intersection with the
Northerly prolongation of the Westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Darnell J. Campbell by
deed dated March 31, 2003 and
recorded
as
Auditor’s
File
No.
200303312049;
Thence
Southerly
along
said
Northerly prolongation of and Westerly line, to its intersection with
Northerly line of a parcel of land
conveyed to John H. Dimmian by
deed dated October 21, 1993 and
recorded in Volume 93-11350, Page 54
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence
Easterly
along
said
Northerly line to its intersection
with the Westerly line of a parcel
of land conveyed to Lisa M. Bragg
by deed dated September 27, 2002
and recorded as Auditor’s File No.
200209271583;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line, to its intersection with the
Southerly line of said Bragg’s land;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line, to its intersection with the
Easterly line of said Bragg’s land;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the
Southerly line of a parcel of land
conveyed to Patricia A. Thomas
by deed dated June 17, 1999 and
recorded
as
Auditor’s
File
No.
199906170338;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line and along the Southerly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to
Elizabeth M. White by deed dated
April 8, 1991 and recorded in Volume
91-11822, Page 39 of Cuyahoga County Records, and along a Southerly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to
Fred L. Wesley by deed dated April
26, 1999 and recorded as Auditor’s
File No. 199904261261, to a Westerly
line of said Wesley’s land;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line to a Southerly line of Wesley’s land;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line and along the Southerly
line of a parcel of land conveyed to
Karen Spehar by deed dated August
26, 1991 and recorded in Volume 9115436, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County
Records, to its intersection with Spehar’s Easterly line;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line, to its intersection with the
centerline of Trafalgar Avenue, N.E.;
Thence Easterly along the centerline of Trafalgar Avenue, N.E., to its
intersection with the Westerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to Jean
Champa, Molly Kochevar, Amelia
Kochevar, and Jean Korenchen by
deed dated July 15, 1997 and recorded in Volume 97-6794, Page 42 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line, to its intersection with the
Southerly line of Champa, Kochevar,
and Korenchen’s land;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line and along the Southerly line
of a parcel of land conveyed to
Amelia Kochevar and Kenneth F.

The City Record
Kochevar by deed dated September
16, 1987 and recorded in Volume 876162, Page 17 of Cuyahoga County
Records, to its intersection with the
Westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to John N. Obat and Mary Obat
by deed dated April 24, 1984 and
recorded in Volume 84-1710, Page 22
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line, to its intersection with the
Southerly line of said Obat’s land;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line, to the Westerly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to Ronald
Suster by deed dated April 10, 1974
and recorded in Volume 13616, Page
75 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line, to its intersection with the
Southerly line of said Suster’s land;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line, to its intersection with the
Westerly line of sublot no. 274 in the
Lake Shore Land Company Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 27 of Maps, Page 25 of
Cuyahoga County records;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line, to its intersection with the
Southerly line of said sublot no. 274;
Thence Easterly along said Southerly line and its Easterly prolongation, to its intersection with the centerline of East 160th Street;
Thence Northerly along said centerline, to its intersection with the
Westerly prolongation of the Southerly line of sublot no. 269 in said
subdivision;
Thence Easterly along said prolongation of and Southerly line, to
its intersection with the Westerly
line of sublot no. 262 in said subdivision;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line and along the Westerly line
of sublot no. 261 and its Southerly
prolongation, to its intersection with
the centerline of Burbank Court,
N.E.;
Thence Easterly along said centerline, to its intersection with the
Easterly line of East 162nd Street;
Thence continuing Easterly along
the centerline of Burbank Court,
N.E. as vacated by City of Cleveland
Ordinance No. 2836-86, passed February 2, 1987, to its intersection with
the centerline of East 163rd Street;
Thence Southerly along the centerline of East 163rd Street and its
Southerly prolongation, to its intersection with the centerline of the
Lakeland Freeway, also known as
Interstate Route 90;
Thence Southwesterly along said
centerline to its intersection with
the Easterly line of the Lakeshore
Land
Company
Subdivision
as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 28 of Maps, Page 3 of Cuyahoga
County Records. Said Easterly line
now evidenced as the Southerly prolongation of the Easterly lines of
sublot no. 306, Block “A”, and sublot
no. 305 in said subdivision;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the
Southerly line of Block “A” in said
subdivision;
Thence Westerly along said Southerly line to its intersection with the
Easterly line of East 160th Street;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line to its intersection with the
Easterly prolongation of the centerline of Shasta Court, N.E.;

1079

17
Thence Westerly along said centerline, to its intersection with the
centerline of East 156th Street;
Thence Southerly along said centerline to its intersection with the
Easterly prolongation of the Northerly line of parcel no. 1 of land conveyed to Alton C. Anderson by deed
dated July 15, 1998 and recorded in
Volume 98-8957, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along said Easterly prolongation of and Northerly
line, to its intersection with the
Northwesterly corner of said parcel
no. 1;
Thence Southwesterly along the
Northwesterly line of parcel no. 2
conveyed to Alton C. Anderson as
aforesaid, to its intersection with
the Southwesterly line of sublot no.
111 in C.W. Moses’ Subdivision as
recorded in Volume 27 of Maps,
Page
12
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence Southeasterly along said
Southwesterly line, to its intersection with the Northwesterly line of
sublot no. 114 in said subdivision;
Thence Southwesterly along said
Northwesterly line, and along the
Northwesterly lines of sublots 118,
117, and 116 in said subdivision, to
the intersection with the Westerly
line of said sublot no. 116;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line and its Southerly prolongation, to its intersection with the
centerline of Calcutta Avenue, N.E.;
Thence Westerly along said centerline, to its intersection with the
Northerly prolongation of the Westerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to A to Z Real Estate Development Corporation by deed dated
October 3, 2001 and recorded as
Auditor’s File No. 200110030330;
Thence Southerly along said Northerly prolongation of and Westerly
line, to its intersection with the
Northerly line of J. W. McClure’s
Subdivision as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 27 of Maps, Page
20 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Westerly along said Northerly line, to its intersection with the
Westerly line of sublot no. 86 in said
subdivision;
Thence Southerly along said Westerly line and the Southerly prolongation thereof, to its intersection
with the centerline of the Lakeland
Freeway;
Thence Southwesterly along said
centerline, to the place of beginning.
Containing within said bounds, an
area of 25.8 acres of land, be the
same more or less.
(c) Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Cleveland Airport
system, 5300 Riverside Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44181-0009, particularly
the Main Terminal and Concourses
A, B, C, and D.
Section 2. That existing Section
699A.011 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 286-05, passed
March 28, 2005, is repealed.
Section 3. That the Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Community Entertainment District is established and includes the areas shown
on the map in File No. 897-08-A.
Section 4. That the designation of
the area described in this ordinance
as the Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Community Entertainment District shall be on file in
the office of the Clerk of Council

18
and on file in the office of the City
Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for such
purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 899-08.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 605.10 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1135-A-98,
passed January 11, 1999, relating to
unnecessary noise.
Whereas, the possession, discharge,
ignition, or explosion any fireworks,
exclusive of novelty fireworks, is
prohibited in the City under Sections
559.40 and 387.02 of the Codified
Ordinances; and
Whereas, noise complaints caused
by the discharge of fireworks increase dramatically during the days
and weeks surrounding the Independence Day holiday; and
Whereas, it is desirable to discourage the illegal use of fireworks
so to decrease the number of noise
complaints, to assure the quiet, comfort, and repose of neighbors, and to
decrease risks to life and property
associated with the discharge of
fireworks; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 605.10 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1135-A-98, passed January 11, 1999, is hereby amended to
read as follows:
Section 605.10 Unnecessary Noise
(a) No person shall make, or
cause, suffer, allow, or permit to be
made within the City any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise, or noises of such character, intensity or duration as to be
detrimental to the life and health of
any individual, or unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of
neighboring inhabitants.
(b) Loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this section shall include without limitation
the following:
(1) The sounding of any horn,
bell, or other signal or warning
device on any motor vehicle, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, except as
a danger or warning signal.
(2) The keeping of any animal or
bird which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise disturbs the
comfort and repose of any person in
the vicinity, where such noise can
be distinctly heard outside the prop-

The City Record
erty line of the premises at which
the animal or bird is kept.
(3) The use of any motorcycle, or
vehicle so out of repair or so loaded
as to create loud or unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling or other
noise.
(4) The blowing of any steam
whistle attached to any stationary
boiler, except to give notice of the
time to begin or stop work or as a
warning of danger, or the use of
steam under pressure for cleaning
purposes
in
any
establishment
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m., when the windows of such
establishment are open.
(5) The unreasonable discharge
into the open air of the exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motor boat engine.
(6) The use of any mechanical
device operated by compressed air
(excluding a jackhammer operated
on weekdays between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.) unless the
noise created thereby is effectively
muffled and reduced.
(7) The creation of a loud and
excessive noise in connection with
the loading or unloading of any
vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
(8) The making of any unnecessary noise by a person or by his
operation of any instrument, device,
agency or vehicle, and/or the performance of any construction or
demolition activity or the operation
of any mechanical, electrical, pneumatically, hydraulically powered or
battery operated apparatus used in
connection with any construction or
demolition
activity
between
the
hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. within 500 feet of places of residence
and 150 feet of any portion of the
grounds and premises on which is
located a hospital or other institution reserved for the sick, aged or
infirm, or within 150 feet of any
school, courthouse, church or building in which religious services are
held, during school hours, hours of
holding court or hours of public worship, respectively. The area within
150 feet of a hospital, school, courthouse or church shall be a “zone of
quiet” and the Director of Public
Safety shall place signs within such
zones of quiet calling attention to
the prohibition against unnecessary
noise.
(9) The making of any loud or
unnecessary noise in violation of
Chapter 683 of these Codified Ordinances.
(10) The discharge, ignition, or
explosion of any fireworks, except
novelty or trick fireworks as defined in Section 3743.01 of the Revised Code, and except for licensed
exhibitors of fireworks authorized
to conduct a fireworks exhibition
pursuant to Section 3743.50 through
3743.55 of the Revised Code.
(c) Emergency utility or other
repair work, such as restoring electric power lines or a water or sewer
main, shall be exempted from this
ordinance. If there is a need to do
any
construction
or
demolition
activity other than emergency repairs the construction contractor in
charge of the project shall submit to
the Director of Public Safety a

1080

June 4, 2008
request
to
perform
construction
work outside of the time allowed
under this ordinance. The Director
of Public Safety may grant an
exemption to this ordinance if such
an exemption is justified and necessary.
(d) Whoever violates any of divisions (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this
section is guilty of making unnecessary noise, a minor misdemeanor,
and shall be fined at least seventyfive dollars ($75.00), which fine
shall not be suspended, waived or
otherwise
reduced
below
that
amount. Whoever violates this section within twelve (12) hours of
having been charged with the minor
misdemeanor
of
making
unnecessary noise or of having been
warned by a police officer to desist
from making unnecessary noise is
guilty of making unnecessary noise,
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree,
and shall be fined at least two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00)
which fine shall not be suspended,
waived, or otherwise reduced below
that amount.
(e) Whoever violates divisions
(b)(9) or (b)(10) of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree and shall be fined
two hundred and fifty dollars ($250)
upon a first offense, which fine
shall not be suspended, waived, or
otherwise
reduced
below
that
amount, and subject to up to 30 days
in jail. Notwithstanding this division, the penalties contained in Section 683.99 shall apply to violations
of division (b)(9) of this section.
(f)
Whoever
violates
division
(b)(9) or (b)(10) of this section,
upon any subsequent offense, or
within 36 hours of having been
warned by a police officer to desist
from violating one of these sections,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree and shall be fined
five hundred dollars ($500), which
fine shall not be suspended, waived,
or otherwise reduced below that
amount, and subject to up to 60 days
in jail. Each day upon which a violation occurs or continues shall be a
separate and punishable offense.
(g)
Whoever
violates
division
(b)(10) of this section, during any
of the dates of June 15 through July
15, inclusive, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree
and shall be fined five hundred dollars ($500), which fine shall not be
suspended, waived, or otherwise
reduced below that amount, and subject to up to 60 days in jail. Each
day upon which a violation occurs
or continues shall be a separate and
punishable offense.
Section 2. That existing Section
605.10 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1135-A-98, passed January 11, 1999 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees on
Public Safety, Legislation, Finance.

June 4, 2008

The City Record

19

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 875-08.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use Districts of land located on the north side of Denison Avenue west of West
65th Street from Two Family to Semi-Industry (Map Change No. 2265; Sheet No. 2).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use Districts of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Denison Avenue at its intersection with the southerly prolongation of the westerly
line of the William C. Towns Subdivision as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 23, Page 3 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records;
Thence northeasterly along said prolongation and said westerly line and along its northerly prolongation to its
intersection with the centerline of Storer Avenue;
Thence westerly along said centerline of Storer Avenue to its intersection with the westerly line of the Catharine
& James Sears Subdivision as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 11, Page 5 of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence southerly along said prolongation and westerly line to its intersection with the northerly line of a parcel
of land conveyed to Noel Caraballo by deed dated July 24th, 2001 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number
200107241272, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 016-02-014;
Thence southeasterly along said northerly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
easterly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Martlynn Hudson by deed dated March 27, 2000,
Thence southerly along said easterly line and along its southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Denison Avenue;
Thence southeasterly along said centerline of Denison Avenue to its intersection with the southerly
prolongation of the westerly line of the aforementioned William C. Towns Subdivision and the principal place
of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Semi-Industry District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2265, Sheet No. 2 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1081

The City Record

20
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 874-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution supporting the Board of County Commissioner’s grant application to the
Ohio Department of Development for
Clean Ohio Revitalization funds to
be used for the expansion of Great
Lakes Towing Company.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure provid-

June 4, 2008

ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council supports the Board of County Commissioner’s grant application for up to
$3,000,000 to the Ohio Department of
Development for Clean Ohio Revitalization funds to be used for the
expansion of Great Lakes Towing
Company.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to send copies of this
resolution to the Board of Cuyahoga

County Commissioners and to Great
Lakes Towing Company
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY ORDINANCES READ IN FULL AND PASSED
Ord. No. 876-08.
By Council Members Lewis and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the terms of the collective bargaining agreement with the International
Union of Painters and Allied Trades, District 6; and amending Section 13 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March
27,

2006,

as

amended

by

Ordinance

No.

995-06,

passed

June

5,

2006,

relating

to

compensation

for

various

classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the terms of
the collective bargaining agreement with the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades, District 6, as
contained in the executive summary, placed in File No. 876-08-A, for the period from April 1, 2007 through March
31, 2010, and which provides, among other things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members of the
bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase

Approximate Date of Increase*

2%

April 1, 2007

2%

April 1, 2008

2%

April 1, 2009

*Wage increases shall be effective as follows:
(a) If April 1st falls in the first week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing
at the beginning of that pay period; or
(b) If April 1st falls in the second week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing
at the beginning of the next pay period.
Section 2. That Section 13 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, as amended by Ordinance No. 995-06,
passed June 5, 2006, is amended to read as follows:
Section 13. International Union of Painters and Allied Trades, District 6.
That salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in
accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:
Minimum

Maximum

1.

Sign Painter ..................................................................................

$23.23

$31.04

2.

Sign Painter Unit Leader ........................................................

$24.23

$33.43

3.

Spray Painter ...............................................................................

$20.83

$28.69

4.

Traffic Sign and Marking Supervisor ................................

$13.28

$24.33

5.

Traffic Sign Process Operator ...............................................

$13.28

$24.36

Section 3. That existing Section 13 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, as amended by Ordinance No.
995-06, passed June 5, 2006, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1082

The City Record

June 4, 2008

21

Ord. No. 892-08.
By Council Members Lewis and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the terms of the collective bargaining agreement with the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39; and amending Section 24 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed
March 27, 2006, as amended by Ordinance No. 1067-06, passed June 12, 2006, Ordinance No. 64-07, passed January
22, 2007 and Ordinance No. 1425-07, passed September 10, 2007, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under division (B) of Section 4117.10 of the Revised Code, this Council approves the terms of
the collective bargaining agreement with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39,
as contained in the executive summary, placed in File No. 892-08-A, for the period from April 1, 2007 through
March 31, 2010, and which provides, among other things, for an increase in the salaries and wages for members
of the bargaining unit under the following schedule:
Increase

Approximate Date of Increase*

2%
2%
2%

April 1, 2007
April 1, 2008
April 1, 2009

*Wage increases shall be effective as follows:
(a) If April 1st falls in the first week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing
at the beginning of that pay period; or
(b) If April 1st falls in the second week of a pay period, then the wage increase shall be effective commencing at the beginning of the next pay period.
Section 2. That Section 24 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, as amended by Ordinance No. 1067-06,
passed June 12, 2006, Ordinance No. 64-07, passed January 22, 2007 and Ordinance No. 1425-07, passed September
10, 2007, is amended to read as follows:
Section 24. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local 39. That the salaries and the compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.

Apprentice Cable Splicer..........................................................
Apprentice Lineman ...................................................................
Cable Foreman .............................................................................
Cable Splicer .................................................................................
Cable Splicer Helper..................................................................
Cable Splicer I .............................................................................
Cable Splicer II ...........................................................................
Dispatcher Electric System Operator ..................................
Electric Meter Industrial Installer ......................................
Electric Meter Instrument Specialist and
General Tester .........................................................................
Electric Meter Service Foremen............................................
Electric Meter Service Installer I ........................................
Electric Meter Service Installer II ......................................
Electric Meterman Apprentice ...............................................
Electric Motor and Transformer Repairman ...................
Electric Switchboard Operator Foreman ...........................
Electric Transmission and Distribution Inspector.........
Foreman Low Tension ..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic ..............................................................
Gas Turbine Mechanic Apprentice .......................................
Junior Electric Switchboard Operator ................................
Line Clearance Man ...................................................................
Line Foreman ...............................................................................
Line Helper Driver.....................................................................
Line Switchman ...........................................................................
Leader Lineman Low-Tension ................................................
Lineman ..........................................................................................
Lineman Leader...........................................................................
Low Tension Lineman ..............................................................
Low Tension Lineman Apprentice .......................................
Low Tension Trouble Lineman .............................................
Police Division Trouble Lineman.........................................
Safety Signal Trouble Lineman ............................................
Senior Cable Splicer...................................................................
Senior Electric Switchboard Operator.................................
Senior Lineman ............................................................................
Signal System Powerman ........................................................
Telecommunications Technician ...........................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician .......................................
Traffic Signal Control Technician 2 ...................................
Transformer Repairman Foreman........................................
Trouble Lineman.........................................................................
Underground Conduit Foreman .............................................

1083

Minimum
$22.22
$22.39
$31.45
$17.46
$20.44
$28.15
$17.14
$26.52
$28.05

Maximum
$24.40
$24.58
$32.60
$27.32
$23.76
$29.24
$26.81
$28.34
$29.13

$28.37
$31.45
$26.12
$24.35
$21.91
$17.38
$31.45
$28.15
$30.91
$17.38
$22.22
$22.36
$22.00
$31.45
$17.73
$30.16
$29.99
$28.15
$26.27
$29.99
$21.95
$29.40
$19.19
$19.19
$29.65
$24.63
$29.65
$19.54
$29.40
$31.11
$30.60
$31.45
$29.65
$31.45

$29.45
$32.60
$27.69
$25.35
$24.04
$27.16
$32.60
$29.76
$32.04
$27.68
$24.40
$23.33
$24.24
$32.60
$23.77
$32.05
$31.11
$29.24
$27.31
$31.11
$23.72
$30.50
$29.96
$29.96
$30.76
$25.65
$30.76
$30.51
$30.50
$32.25
$31.73
$32.60
$31.78
$32.60

The City Record

22

June 4, 2008

Section 3. That existing Section 24 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, as amended by Ordinance No.
1067-06, passed June 12, 2006, Ordinance No. 64-07, passed January 22, 2007 and Ordinance No. 1425-07, passed
September 10, 2007, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 893-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the President of Council to make
payment to Iron Mountain National
Underground Storage for provision of
professional records and information
management services for Cleveland
City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the President of
Council is authorized to make payment in the amount of $4,934.96 to
Iron
Mountain
National
Underground Storage for provision of professional records and information
management services for Cleveland
City Council.
Section 2. That the amount authorized in Section 1 shall be paid from
Fund No. 01 SF 001.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 894-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an agreement

with The Downtown Cleveland Alliance for the “Downtown Digs,” A
Guide to Living Downtown Cleveland
Project through the use of Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into an agreement with the
Downtown Cleveland Alliance for
the “Downtown Digs,” A Guide to
Living Downtown Cleveland Project
for the public purpose of increasing
residential growth opportunities for
City residents in downtown Cleveland through the use of Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $2,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 895-08.
By Council Member Turner.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase recreation
equipment for the Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties for
the John F. Kennedy Recreation Center through the use of Ward 1 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 for each or
all of the following items: recreation
equipment and a equipment maintenance agreement for the John F.
Kennedy Recreation Center to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies for a gross
price on a unit basis for the Division
of Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized will be
paid from Fund No. 10 SF 166 and
may not exceed $69,000.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 898-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to amend Section 113.12 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 846-07, passed May 21, 2007, relating to fees for publications and services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 113.12 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, 1976, as amended by Ordinance
No. 846-07, passed May 21, 2007, is hereby amended to read as follows:

1084

The City Record

June 4, 2008
Section 113.12

23

Fees for Publications and Services

(a) The Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to collect the following fees for Codified Ordinance parts reflecting
all code sections passed by Cleveland City Council complete through June 10, 2003:

Unit

Cost

Charter

$

Part I. Administrative Code

$ 28.10

Part II. Health Code

$ 17.04

7.03

Part III. Land Use Code, Planning and Housing

$ 14.94

Part III. Zoning Code

$ 10.40

Part III. Land Use Code, Housing Code

$ 14.25

Part III. Land Use Code, Fire Prevention Code

$ 19.60

Part III. Building Code

$ 10.40

Part IV. Traffic Code

$ 14.37

Part V. Municipal Utilities and Services Code

$ 28.10

Part VI. Offenses and Business Activities Code

$ 19.75

Complete Set

$323.12

A complete set of the Codified Ordinances includes the Charter and all Parts, the General Index, User’s Guide,
tabbed dividers and binder.
(b) The Clerk of Council shall annually publish a supplement to the Codified Ordinances, which shall incorporate
all legislative changes enacted by Cleveland City Council during the previous 12 months.
(c) The Clerk of Council is hereby authorized to collect the following fees for the supplement to the Codified Ordinances containing amendments passed by City Council from January 1, 2007 through December 31,
2007:

Supplement Unit

Cost

Charter

$ 10.56

Part I.

$ 29.78

Part II.

$ 17.11

Part IIIa

$ 15.01

Part IIIb.

$ 10.71

Part IIIc.

$ 17.80

Part IIId.

$ 15.01

Part IIIe.

$

6.99

Part IV.

$

6.18

Part V.

$ 22.89

Part VI.

$ 11.50

Complete Bound Set

$133.89

(d) The Clerk of Council shall charge one dollar ($1.00) for each certification and five cents ($0.05) per page
for copies of ordinances, resolutions, reports, communications and other documents.
(e) All fees specified herein are net and any sales tax or postage, if applicable, shall be in addition to the
fees set forth herein.
(f) All fees collected in accordance with divisions (a) and (c) of this Section shall be deposited into a special
revenue fund and such funds shall be used only for costs associated with reviewing, compiling, updating, indexing, printing, and/or codifying the Codified Ordinances and any supplements to the Codified Ordinances, including any costs associated with alternative formats and internet accessibility.
Section 2. That existing Section 113.12 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 846-07, passed May 21, 2007, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter, and statutory provisions and place on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1085

24
Ord. No. 902-08.
By Council Member Brancatelli.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Morgana Run, on May
31, 2008, sponsored by Hermes Sports
& Events.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Morgana Run,
sponsored
by
Hermes
Sports
&
Events on May 31, 2008, with the
Run beginning at Old TOPS Parking Lot on Morgan Run Trail to
East 75th; East 75th to Fleet; Fleet
to East 49th; East 49th to Morgan
Run Trail to finish, provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 903-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the annual Asthma Walk,
on May 31, 2008, sponsored by The
American Lung Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the annual Asthma
Walk, sponsored by The American
Lung Association on May 31, 2008,
with the Walk beginning at West
3rd street side of Browns Stadium
around stadium to Erieside, Erieside
to East 9th, East 9th to Prospect/Huron, Huron across Ontario to
West Huron, West Huron across
Superior to West 9th, West 9th to St.
Clair, St. Clair to West 3rd, West 3rd

The City Record
to Browns Stadium to finish, provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined
by the Chief of Police and safety
forces as may be necessary in order
to protect the participants in the
event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall
be fully indemnified from any and
all liability resulting from the issuance of the same, to the extent and
in form satisfactory to the Director
of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 904-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a permit for the 2nd Annual Walkathon for Human Rights, on
July 19, 2008, sponsored by The
Empowerment Center of Greater
Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 2nd Annual
Walkathon for Human Rights, sponsored by The Empowerment Center
of Greater Cleveland on July 19,
2008, with the Walk beginning at
East 30th and Euclid to proceed east
and at East 36th and Euclid to turn
right or south and proceed to
Prospect and East 36th Street; turn
right or west and proceed to East
30th and Prospect to finish, provided that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

1086

June 4, 2008
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 878-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 727
Bolivar Road and Patio.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 and
D6 Liquor Permit from CRK Enterprises, Inc., DBA Gateway Sports
Bar, 727 Bolivar Road and Patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent
Number 1792372 to 1624 Superior
Avenue, Inc., 727 Bolivar Road and
Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 65491600005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 and D6
Liquor Permit from CRK Enterprises, Inc., DBA Gateway Sports
Bar, 727 Bolivar Road and Patio,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent
Number 1792372 to 1624 Superior

June 4, 2008
Avenue, Inc., 727 Bolivar Road and
Patio, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent
Number
65491600005;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 879-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 900
Carnegie Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from BP Products North America, Inc., DBA BP
Food Mart 4385, 900 Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent Number 08984674385 to Carnegie Energy, Inc., DBA Carnegie
BP, 900 Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio
44115,
Permanent
Number
1269332; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and

The City Record
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from BP Products
North America, Inc., DBA BP Food
Mart 4385, 900 Carnegie Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Permanent
Number
08984674385
to
Carnegie
Energy, Inc., DBA Carnegie BP, 900
Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 1269332;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 880-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 2553 Superior
Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor
Permit from BP Products North
America, Inc., DBA Site #1104, 2553
Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114,
Permanent Number 08984671104 to
Superior Energy, Inc., DBA Superior
BP, 2553 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
8710249; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed

1087

25
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 Liquor Permit from BP Products North America, Inc., DBA Site #1104, 2553 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114,
Permanent Number 08984671104 to
Superior Energy, Inc., DBA Superior
BP, 2553 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Permanent Number
8710249; and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 881-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit at 3006 Franklin Boulevard
and repealing Resolution No. 466-08,
objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Tasty
Bite, LLC, DBA Tasty Bite Delicatessen, 3006 Franklin Boulevard,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent

26
No. 8806375, by Resolution No. 466-08
adopted by the Council on March 31,
2008; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Tasty
Bite, LLC, DBA Tasty Bite Delicatessen, 3006 Franklin Boulevard,
Cleveland, Ohio 44113, Permanent
Number 8806375, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 466-08, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 882-08.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of liquor license
of a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to
4194 Rocky River Drive.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of liquor license of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit from Fresques, Inc., DBA Dial A Bubbly, 16425
Lorain
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44111, Permanent Number 2919892 to
Fresques, Inc., DBA Dial A Bubbly,
4194 Rocky River Drive, Cleveland,
Ohio
44135,
Permanent
Number
29198920001; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and

The City Record
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of liquor license of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Fresques, Inc.,
DBA Dial A Bubbly, 16425 Lorain
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, Permanent Number 2919892 to Fresques,
Inc., DBA Dial A Bubbly, 4194 Rocky
River Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44135,
Permanent Number 29198920001; and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 883-08.
By Council Member Lewis.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to a New C2 Liquor
Permit at 9200 Wade Park Avenue,
Unit A 30/40 only and repealing Resolution No. 302-08, objecting to said
permit.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a New C2 Liquor Permit to 9200
Wade Park Avenue, Unit A 30/40
only by Resolution No. 302-08 adopted by the Council on February 25,
2008; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
permit and consents to said permit;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1088

June 4, 2008
Section 1. That objection to a New
C2 Liquor Permit to M & A Food,
Inc., DBA M & A Food, 9200 Wade
Park Avenue, Unit A 30/40 only,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106, Permanent
Number 5377788, be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 302-08, containing such objection,
be and the same is hereby repealed
and that this Council consents to the
immediate permit thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 884-08.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 731-33 East 185th
Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit from Field Barnes, Inc., DBA
Fields, 731-33 East 185th Street, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number 27105070005 to Crawl
Inn, Inc., DBA Fields, 73133 East
185th Street, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio
44119,
Permanent
Number
18081260005; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperi-

June 4, 2008
ty, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit from Field Barnes, Inc., DBA
Fields, 731-33 East 185th Street, 1st
floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent Number 27105070005 to Crawl
Inn, Inc., DBA Fields, 73133 East
185th Street, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio
44119,
Permanent
Number
18081260005; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 885-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to a New C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at
3106 Fulton Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C2 and D6 Liquor Permit at Serrat
Auto Service, Inc., DBA Henry’s
Marathon, 3106 Fulton Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number
7989015; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department

The City Record
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Serrat Auto Service, Inc., DBA Henry’s Marathon,
3106 Fulton Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 7989015;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 886-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution objecting
to the transfer of ownership of a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to 3548 Fulton Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from YJF, Inc.,
DBA Kwik Chek Deli & Food Market, 3548 Fulton Road, Cleveland,
Ohio
44109,
Permanent
Number
9804498 to AA Kwik Check Deli,
LLC, DBA AA Kwik Check Deli,
3548 Fulton Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 0000560;
and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already

1089

27
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from YJF, Inc., DBA
Kwik Chek Deli & Food Market,
3548 Fulton Road, Cleveland, Ohio
44109, Permanent Number 9804498 to
AA Kwik Check Deli, LLC, DBA AA
Kwik Check Deli, 3548 Fulton Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent
Number 0000560; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

28
Res. No. 900-08.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution urging
the U.S. Congress to implement an
agricultural program that would
double food production in the United States and pay our farmers parity prices to carry this out, in order
to feed U.S. citizens and initiate a
program to help feed people in other
parts of the world.
Whereas, according to the Untied
Nations Food and Agricultural Organization, the world is now undergoing a food and fuel crisis of unparalleled proportions; and
Whereas, the managing Director
of the Asian Development Bank,
recently stated that one billion
Asians are a serious risk of starvation; and
Whereas, thirty-three nations that
are dependant on food imports,
including Somalia, Egypt, Niger and
others, are now engulfed in riots
and political turmoil because there
is less food imported to those
nations; and
Whereas, the policy of Free Trade,
as promoted by the World Trade
Organization, NAFTA, CAFTA and
other institutions, is responsible for
many nations, including the United
States, losing their ability to feed
their populations; and
Whereas, the conversions of much
acreage worldwide from corn and
food production to biofuels has exacerbated this crisis, prompting Jean
Ziegler, the UN Special Rapporteur
on the Right to Food, to indict the
use of food for fuels as a “crime
against humanity”; and
Whereas, the world is now in the
grip of a hyperinflationary price spiral in food commodities and fuel,
which is disrupting the daily lives
of people throughout our nation and
cities; and
Whereas, in 1963, President John
F. Kennedy called upon the government of the United States to continue the good neighbor policy of President Franklin Roosevelt and launch
a Food for Peace program to help
starving nations around the world;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the U.S. Congress to implement an
agricultural program that would
double food production in the United States and pay our farmers parity prices to carry this out, in order
to feed U.S. citizens and initiate a
program to help feed people in other
parts of the world.
Section 2. That the Clerk is directed to transmit certified copies of
this resolution to all members of the
United States Congress representing
northeast Ohio and to President
George W. Bush.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 901-08.
By Council Members Polensek,
Westbrook and Zone.
An emergency resolution urging
the United States Senate to pass Senate Bill 2844, introduced by Senator
George Voinovich, which would reauthorize a stronger Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal
Health Act.
Whereas, U.S. Senator George Voinovich has introduced Senate Bill 2844,
which reauthorizes a strengthened
Beaches Environmental Assessment
and Coastal Health (BEACH) Act;
and
Whereas, the legislation increases
grants to states, including Ohio, for
development and implementation of
programs focused on remediation of
contamination sources; and
Whereas, Senate Bill 2844 also requires stronger beach water quality
testing and public notification standards so beachgoers are better
informed about the safety of their
beaches; and
Whereas, Senator Voinovich has
stated that “the Great Lakes are our
nation’s north coast and millions of
Americans
enjoy
their
beaches
every year”; and
Whereas, Senator Voinovich has
called this bill “a vital piece of a
comprehensive strategy that is absolutely necessary to save one of
our nation’s greatest natural resources”; and
Whereas, Senate Bill 2844 will help
beaches remain healthy and safe
and will protect them from the
harmful effects of pollution and
sewage contamination after flooding
or heavy rainfall; and
Whereas, this bill recognizes that
the Great Lakes have been receiving an inequitable amount of grant
funding due to the length of the
beach season; and
Whereas, this bill should provide
more flexibility to states to use
BEACH Act grants to investigate
and remediate contamination sources;
and
Whereas, this bill will required
the
Environmental
Protection
Agency to work with states to
ensure they use the latest science
to sample and test beach waters to
protect the public’s health; the law
also sets up comprehensive monitoring and notification programs in
order to provide up-to-date information on the condition of all public
beaches; and
Whereas, the bill doubles the
authorized grant funding to states
from $30 million to $60 million; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1090

June 4, 2008
Section 1. That this Council urges
the United States Senate to pass
Senate Bill 2844, introduced by
Senator George Voinovich, which
would reauthorize a stronger Beaches Environmental Assessment and
Coastal Health Act.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit copies of
this
resolution
Senator
George
Voinovich and all members of the
U.S. Senate.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1112-A-07 (As a substitute
for Ord. No. 1112-07).
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 3103.091, relating to utility shut-off in vacant and unsafe
structures; and to amend Sections
3103.09 and 3103.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 903-06, passed May 22,
2006
and
Ordinance
No.
899-06,
passed August 9, 2006, relating to
unsafe structures and exterior property nuisances; violation and remedial
notices;
cost
recovery
and
penalty.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities,
Building
and
Housing,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, Community and Economic Development, Legislation, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at new Section
3103.091(a), line 4, strike “disconnected” and insert “shut-off”; and in
line 6, strike “termination” and insert “shut-off”.
2. In Section 1, at new Section
3103.091(b), line 2, strike “terminate”
and insert “shut-off”; and also in line
2, strike “twenty (20)” and insert
“forty (40)”.
3. In Section 1, at new Section
3103.091(c)(1), line 2, after “gas,”
insert “telephone, cable,”; and insert
new (c)(3) to read as follows:
“(3) “Shut-off” means to stop the
flow of gas, electricity, water or
other utility service from entering
the premises.”
4. In Section 2, at amended Section
3103.09(a)(8), line 2, strike “disconnected” and insert “shut-off”; in
(b)(2), line 3, strike “disconnection”
and insert “shut-off”; in (d)(4), line
8, strike “disconnect” and insert
“shut-off”; and in (h)(5), line 7,
strike
“disconnected”
and
insert
“shut-off”.
5. Insert new Section 4 to read as
follows:

June 4, 2008
“Section 4. That six months from
the date of passage of this legislation, the Director will appear at the
Public Utilities Committee to report
on the effectiveness of this legislation.”.
6. Renumber existing Section 4 as
new “Section 5”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 66-08.
By Council Members Turner, Conwell, Pierce Scott, Lewis, Brady, Polensek,
Westbrook,
Cleveland,
Coats,
Keane, Kelley, Cummins, Mitchell and
Reed.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 676.01 and 676.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance Nos.
1132-04 passed July 12, 2006 and
2704-A-90 passed June 15, 1992, relating to junk and secondhand dealers.
Approved by Public Safety, Finance,
Law; Relieved of Committee on Legislation; Passage recommended by
Committees on Public Safety, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
676.01(a)(5) E, strike “and downspouts;” and insert “, copper gutters,
downspouts and flashing;”.
2. Section 1, at amended Section
676.01(a)(5) G, strike “;” and insert
“, including plumbing and electrical
fixtures;”.
3. In Section 1, at amended Section
676.01(c), line 2, strike “planos” and
insert “pianos”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 347-08.
By Council Members Zone, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 535.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 778-06,
passed June 5, 2006; and to supplement the codified ordinances by
enacting new Section 535.23 relating
to water service fees and charges
and restricted water mains.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Legislation; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Public Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 497-08.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as

The City Record
enacted by Ordinance No. 1033-07,
passed November 26, 2007, relating
to purchase or rental of commodities, goods, and services.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Relieved of Committee on Legislation; Passage recommended by
Committee on Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at amended Section
181.101(a)(4), line 1, strike “with or”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 500-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to create a Water and Sewer Service
Line Residential Service Contract
and Protection Plan Program; and
authorizing the Director of Public
Utilities to employ one or more professionals to develop, market, implement, and manage the program on
behalf of the Divisions of Water and
Water Pollution Control, for a period of five years, with one option to
renew for an additional five-year
period, exercisable by the Director
of Public Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 11 and
12 in their entirety and insert “fiveyear period, exercisable through
additional legislative authority.”.
2. In Section 2, strike line 8 in
its entirety and insert “exercisable
through additional legislative authority.”
3. Strike Section 5 in its entirety
and insert the following:
“Section 5. That the contract or
contracts shall include the following
provisions: (a) There will no additional cost to the City of Cleveland
for services performed by the Program Service Provider other than
the remittance payments made to
them by the City; (b) Prior to the
start of work under the contract, the
Program Service Provider shall meet
with the Public Utilities Committee
to discuss the program; and (c) If
the Director determines to seek legislation to exercise the option to
renew, then six months prior to the
expiration of the contract the Program Service Provider will meet
with the Public Utilities Committee
to report on the program.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 549-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utili-

1091

29
ties to enter into one or more contracts without competitive bidding
with BancTec, Inc. to maintain the
hardware and software of up to
two
BancTec
9500
remittance
processors and equipment, including parts and labor, for the Division of Utilities Fiscal Control,
Department of Public Utilities, for
a period not to exceed one year.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 553-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 5 of Ordinance
No. 2156-05, passed December 5, 2005,
as amended by Ordinance No. 182607, passed December 3, 2007; to supplement the ordinance by adding
new Sections 6, 7 and 8; and to renumber existing Section 6 to new
Section 9, relating to one or more
amendments to contracts with West
Sixth Associates Limited Partnership
and Grand Arcade Ltd. to accept discount prepayments of the loans regarding financial assistance to the
Grand Arcade project at West 6th
Street and St. Clair and to create the
Neighborhood Retail Assistance Program.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 13 at the end,
strike “to create”.
2. In Section 1, at amended Section
5, line 5, after “streets,” insert “or”,
and in line 6, strike “, or at either
City-owned airport”.
3. In Section 3, at supplemented
Section 6, line 4, strike “or residential lots, or at either City-owned airport” and insert “or residential lots”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 632-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into one or more contracts with Kronos Incorporated
for professional services necessary
to maintain the current time and
attendance workforce system and
software and hardware support,
for a period of one year with two
one year options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance; when amended as
follows:

30
1. In the title, strike lines 8 and
9 in their entirety and insert “year
options to renew, the second of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.”.
2. In Section 1, line 6, strike “exercisable by the Director of Public
Utilities.” and insert “. The first of
the one-year options to renew may
be exercised by the Director of Public Utilities, without the necessity of
obtaining additional authority of
this Council. The second of the oneyear options to renew may not be
exercised without additional legislative authority.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 633-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of labor, materials, and services necessary to test,
refurbish, replace, or repair existing
unit process equipment, dry powder
and liquid chemical feeding equipment, including appurtenances, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period not
to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, lines 8 and 9, strike
“, for a period not to exceed two
years”.
2. In Section 1, line 3, strike “two
year” and insert “one or two year”.
3. In Section 1, at the end, add the
following: “The Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with a term
of two years instead of one year
when there is a financial advantage
to the City. For purposes of this
ordinance, a financial advantage
shall be determined by the Director
of Public Utilities by comparing the
bids received for both terms.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 634-08.
By Council Members Keane, Brady
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 985-06,
passed June 12, 2006, as amended by
Ordinance No. 837-07, passed June 11,
2007, relating to constructing conduits, manholes, surface restoration
and appurtenances to place an electric line underground on Lorain Avenue between West 150th Street and
Fairview Hospital and authorizing
an agreement with the Cleveland
Electric Illuminating company to

The City Record
pay premium charges for the installation.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. Strike the title in its entirety
and insert: “An Emergency Ordinance to amend Section 5 of Ordinance No. 2457-02, passed March 10,
2003, relating to making the public
improvement of constructing streetscape improvements in the Kamm’s
Corners area; authorizing the Director of Public Service to enter into
one or more contracts for the making of the improvement; and authorizing the Director to employ one or
more professional consultants to
design the improvement.”.
2. Strike Sections 1 and 2 in their
entirety and insert:
“Section 1. That Section 5 of Ordinance No. 2457-02, passed March 10,
2003, is amended to read as follows:”
“Section 5. That the cost of the
improvement and the professional
services authorized shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 10 SF 166, 20 SF 181,
20 SF 190, 20 SF 302, 20 SF 312, 20
SF 322, 20 SF 334, 20 SF 342, 20 SF
353, 20 SF 364, 20 SF 373, 20 SF 380,
20 SF 383, 20 SF 520, and from any
fund or subfunds to which are credited the proceeds of any federal
grants or general obligation bonds
which include the above improvement appropriated for this purpose.
Request Nos. 113865 and 175529.
Section 2. That existing Section 5
of Ordinance No. 2457-02, passed
March 10, 2003, is repealed.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 638-08.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to extend
the Solid Waste and Recycling Pilot
Program, authorized by Ordinance
No. 988-07, passed July 11, 2007, for
a period not to exceed two years;
authorizing the director to employ
one or more professional consultants
to collect and analyze data, to provide other professional services that
are needed for the program, and to
evaluate the pilot program and
make recommendations to implement a permanent program; and to
amend Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance
No. 988-07, passed July 11, 2007,
relating to purchases and leases
under the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, line 11, strike “Sections 1 and 2” and insert “Section 1”;
and in line 12, after “July 11, 2007,”
insert “, as amended by Ordinance
No. 1273-07, passed August 8, 2007,”.
2. In Section 1, line 1, after “extension of the” insert “six-month”; and
in line 2, after “July 11, 2007,” strike
“for” and insert “as amended by

1092

June 4, 2008
Ordinance No. 1283-07, passed August
8, 2007, to”.
3. In Section 4, line 1, strike “Sections 1 and 2” and insert “Section 1”;
and in line 2, after “2007,” insert “,
as amended by Ordinance No. 127307, passed August 8, 2007, is”.
4. In Section 4, strike amended
Sections 1 and 2 in their entirety
and insert the following:
“Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
at least two contracts for the six
month lease of no more than a total
of thirty thousand carts, at least two
contracts for the lease of various
automated trucks for a period not to
exceed two years, and at least two
contracts for the six month lease of
a total of twelve cart tippers, all to
be leased without competitive bidding by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis,
for the Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal, Department of Public
Service. The lessors shall be chosen
by the Board of Control. The Director of Public Service is authorized
to purchase the leased carts and
cart tippers at the termination of
their respective leases for a price to
be determined by the Board of Control.”.
5. In Section 5, line 1, strike “Sections 1 and 2” and insert “Section 1”;
and in line 2, after “2007,” insert “,
as amended by Ordinance No. 127307, passed August 8, 2007, is”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 639-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
Cuyahoga County for the Urban
Area Security Initiative Program;
authorizing one or more requirement
contracts for the purchase of materials, equipment, supplies, and services;
authorizing
one
or
more
agreements with Cuyahoga County,
Attevo, Inc., Datamaxx Technologies, and FingerPrint USA to implement the program; and to employ
one or more professional consultants
to manage the program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 646-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to create The Green Technology Business Grant Program,
The Technology Business Grant Program, and The Downtown Business
Grant Program; and to enter into
grant agreements under the programs.

June 4, 2008
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 5, after “Downtown” insert “and City-wide”.
2. In Section 1, line 3, after “forprofit” insert “or non-profit”.
3. In Section 5, line 2, after “The
Downtown” insert “and City-wide”;
in line 3, after “profit” insert “or
non-profit”; and strike “Central Business District” and insert “City”.
4. In Section 7, line 3, after “Downtown” insert “and City-wide”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 681-08.
By Council Members Zone, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 523.21 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2068-05,
passed November 21, 2005; relating
to the Cleveland Public Power energy adjustment charge.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Legislation; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Public Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 682-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to approve the street lighting rate for
street lights to be acquired from
The Cleveland Electric Illuminating
Company under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1925-07, passed December 10, 2007.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 685-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Johnson and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 15-08, passed January 7, 2008,
relating to authorizing the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
to enter into a grant agreement with
the fiscal agent of the African
American Cultural Garden Society,
to assist in establishing and developing the African American Cultural Garden.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Relieved of Committee on Public Parks, Property and Recreation;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 689-08.
By Council Members Polensek,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
employ one or more professional
consultants for design, engineering,
and construction services necessary
to implement the Waterloo Streetscape project, and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire for right-of-way purposes such real property necessary
to implement the project; and authorizing the Director to apply for and
accept one or more grants from public entities and from the State of
Ohio through the Northeast Ohio
Area Coordinating Agency for the
project.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 690-08.
By Council Members Coats, Brady
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 10 of Ordinance No. 2332-03,
passed December 15, 2003, relating
to giving consent of the City of
Cleveland for the rehabilitation of
Belvoir Boulevard between Euclid
Avenue and the South Euclid corporation line, authorizing relative agreements, applying for and accepting
County Motor Vehicle License Tax
funds, and causing payment of the
City’s share to the County for the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 691-08.
By Council Members Keane, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 2141-05, passed February 13,
2006, relating to the acquisition of
certain easement interests for The
City Bank Investment Company for
the public improvement of improving the corner of Rocky River Drive
and Lorain Road.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Relieved of Committee on City Planning; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

1093

31
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 696-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to amend Contract No. 66986
with the Westside Industrial Retention and Expansion Network to provide for continued services under
the grant.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 704-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development
Block Grant funds for anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance; and authorizing the
Director of Consumer Affairs to
enter into one or more contracts
with various entities to provide
assistance to City residents.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage recommended by Committee
on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 725-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to apply for and accept a
grant from the Cuyahoga County
Department of Justice Affairs for
the Get on Track Program; authorizing the Director to enter into one
or more contracts with Amer-I-Can
and other agencies, entities, or individuals to provide GED instruction
under the grant.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 726-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to apply for and accept a
grant from the Cuyahoga County
Department of Justice Affairs for
the Evaluation of Domestic Violence
Case Processing in Cleveland Municipal Court Program; and authorizing
one or more agreements with Dr.
Wendy Regoeczi and Dr. Dana Hubbard to implement the grant.

32
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 727-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to apply for and accept a
grant from SAMHSA for the Case
Management and Cannabis Youth
Treatment for Young Offenders Program; and authorizing the Director
to enter into one or more contracts
with the Alcohol and Drug Addiction Services Board of Cuyahoga
County to implement and manage
the grant.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 728-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to employ one or more professional consultants to provide after-hour answering services for the City of
Cleveland main telephone line, for a
period of one year, with two oneyear options to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 729-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of labor and
materials needed to maintain, replace, or repair overhead doors, for
the various divisions of City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 731-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement contracts of unarmed, uniformed security guard services, for
the various divisions of City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Ord. No. 733-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to apply for and accept a
grant from the Cuyahoga County
Corrections Planning Board for the
Domestic Intervention, Education &
Training (D.I.E.T.) Program.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 759-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts with Cleveland State
University to provide data services
and reports on housing, demographics, land use, real estate sales transactions, and other real estate and
population information and technical assistance.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 760-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts with CDBG-eligible
agencies to implement the Cityworks Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 762-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with Valleyview Associates II, L.P.,
or its designee, to provide development assistance to partially finance
the Tremont Pointe Development
Project Phase II located at the eastern edge of the Tremont neighborhood and I-490, and all other associated costs necessary to redevelop
the property.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

1094

June 4, 2008
Ord. No. 804-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services
necessary to improve and update
computers, e-mail service, server
consolidation, and remote e-mail
access systems, for the Division of
Information Technology and Services, Department of Finance, for a
period of one year with three oneyear options to renew, exercisable
by the Director of Finance.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, strike line 11 in its
entirety and insert “, the second of
which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.”.
2. In Section 1, line 4, strike “exercisable by the Director of Finance,”;
and in line at after “Finance.” insert
“The first of the one-year options to
renew may be exercised by the
Director of Finance, without the
necessity of obtaining additional
authority of this Council. The second of the one-year options to renew
may not be exercised without additional legislative authority. If additional
legislative
authority
is
received to exercise the second oneyear option to renew, then the third
one-year option to renew may be
exercised by the Director of Finance
without obtaining additional authority of this Councill.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
MOTION
By Council Member Reed, seconded by Council Member Brady and
unanimously carried that the absence of Council Members Fannie M.
Lewis and Joseph Santiago, be and is
hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:35 p.m. to meet on Monday, June
9, 2008 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measure will be on
its final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

The City Record

June 4, 2008
BOARD OF CONTROL
May 28, 2008
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, May 28, 2008,
at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Jackson
presiding.
Present: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Absent: Director Rush.
Others: Deborah Midgett, Acting
Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 250-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
68-98, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on October 19,
1998, as amended by Ordinance No.
94-99, passed on March 1, 1999,
ARCADIS U.S., Inc. is selected from
a list of firms determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Utilities as the
firm to be employed by contract to
provide Design Engineering Services for the Morgan Chemical
Facility Project, for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director
of
Public
Utilities
is
authorized to enter into a contract
with ARCADIS U.S., Inc. based
upon its proposal dated, February
29, 2008, which contract shall be
prepared by the Director of Law,
shall provide for furnishing of professional services described in the
proposal, for an aggregate fee not
exceeding $2,381,466.30, and shall
contain such additional provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by ARCADIS U.S., Inc.
for the above-mentioned professional services is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

AA Blueprint Co.,
Inc. (FBE)

Sigma Associates,
Inc. (FBE)

DLZ Ohio, Inc.
(MBE)

WORK
PERCENTAGE

$ 30,000.00
1.26%

$248,050.00
10.42%

$384,011.00
16.12%

$162,871.00
6.84%
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Act-

33

ing Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 251-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1954-06, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on August 8, 2007,
RNR Consulting is selected from a
list of firms determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Utilities as the firm to
be employed by contract to provide
General IT Consulting Services to
provide a variety of information
technology services on an as-needed
basis, for a term not exceeding two
years or the performance of services
having an aggregate fee not exceeding $425,000, whichever occurs first,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
RNR Consulting based upon its
revised proposal dated, March 6,
2008, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide for furnishing of professional services described in the proposal, for a term not exceeding two
years or the performance of services
having an aggregate fee not exceeding $425,000.00, whichever occurs
first, and shall contain such additional provisions as the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved that the employment of the following subcontractors by RNR Consulting for the
above-mentioned professional services
is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

Solar Systems
Networking, Inc.
(FBE)

NCCI Technology

Westin Engineering,
Inc.

Practical Solution,
a division of
Centric Consulting,
LLC
SARCOM, Inc.

WORK
PERCENTAGE

Requisition No. 182096
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $500,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the labor and materials, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractors by Utilicon Corp.
for the above-mentioned service is
approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

Dan Ray Construction
(MBE)

ECC Enterprises, LLC
(FBE)
$21,225.00
4.99%
$63,675.00
14.98%

$25,000.00
5.88%

$25,000.00
5.88%
$25,000.00
5.88%

Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.

CDM

Resolution No. 252-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Utilicon Corp. for an esti-

1095

mated quantity of labor and materials necessary to repair or replace
water mains, fire hydrants, valves,
service connections and appurtenances – Area A, all items, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of one
year starting upon the later of execution of the contract or the day following expiration of the currently
effective contract for the labor and
materials, received on March 19,
2008, under the authority of Ordinance No. 98-08, passed March 10,
2008, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$3,895,829.00 (0%), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the labor and
materials, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the contract of the
following:

WORK
PERCENTAGE

$583,600.00
14.98%

$195,200.00
5.01%

Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 253-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Utilicon Corp. for an estimated quantity of labor and materials necessary to repair or replace
water mains, fire hydrants, valves,
service connections and appurtenances – Area B, all items, for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of one
year starting upon the later of execution of the contract or the day following expiration of the currently
effective contract for the labor and
materials, received on March 19,
2008, under the authority of Ordinance No. 98-08, passed March 10,
2008, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$3,323,746.91 (0%), is affirmed and

The City Record

34
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the labor and
materials, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 182097
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $500,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the labor and materials, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractors by Utilicon Corp.
for the above-mentioned service is
approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

Dan-Ray Construction,
LLC (MBE)

ECC Enterprises, LLC
(FBE)

WORK
PERCENTAGE

$499,500.00
15.03%

$167,200.00
5.03%

Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution 254-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Coleman Spohn Corporation for an estimated quantity
of labor and materials necessary to
repair or replace water mains, fire
hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances – Area C,
all items, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year starting upon the
later of execution of the contract or
the day following expiration of the
currently effective contract for the
labor and materials, received on
March 20, 2008, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 98-08, passed March
10, 2008, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$3,193,750.50, is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the labor and
materials, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 182098
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $500,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the labor and materials, whether more or less than the

June 4, 2008

estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractor by Coleman Spohn
Corporation for the above-mentioned
service is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

Prime Services (MBE)

WORK
PERCENTAGE
$479,062.58
15.00%

Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 255-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Coleman Spohn Corporation for an estimated quantity of
labor and materials necessary to
repair or replace water mains, fire
hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances – Area D,
all items, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of one year starting upon the
later of execution of the contract or
the day following expiration of the
currently effective contract for the
labor and materials, received on
March 20, 2008, under the authority
of Ordinance No. 98-08, passed March
10, 2008, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$3,074,631.50, is affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is requested to enter into a requirement contract for the labor and
materials, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 182099
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $500,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the labor and materials, whether more or less than the
estimated
quantity,
as
may
be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractor by Coleman Spohn
Corporation for the above-mentioned
service is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR

Prime Services (MBE)

WORK
PERCENTAGE
$461,194.73
15.00%

Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Act-

1096

ing Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 256-08.
By Director Wasik.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Perk Company, 8100 Grand Avenue, Suite 300, Cleveland, Ohio 44104,
for the public improvement of repairing and constructing sidewalks,
curbs, curb ramps, driveway aprons,
on streets authorized for 2008 Concrete Requirements Contract, all
items, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of
Public Service, received on May 14,
2008 under the authority of Ordinance No. 1070-07, passed February
25, 2008, upon a unit basis for the
improvements to be performed as
ordered during the period ending
twelve months from the date of
award of the contract the unit prices
set forth in the bid, which on the
basis of the estimated work to be
done would amount to $2,613,107.00,
is affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director
of Public Service is requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
the improvement, which contract
shall provide for the initial performance of the following work:
Requisition Number 142-08
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $2,613,107.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the contractor
will perform so much of the balance of the work as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the requirement contract, whether
the same shall be less than the
total estimate of work to be performed under the contract or shall
exceed the same by not more than
ten percent.
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following subcontractors is approved:
McTech Corporation
8100 Grand Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44104
(MBE) — $393,970.00 — (15.%)
Cuyahoga Supply
5340 Perkins Road
Bedford Heights, Ohio 44128
(FBE) — 132,660.00 — (5%)
DOT Sawing and Drilling
1134 Taylor Avenue
Elyria, Ohio 44036
$6,875.00 — (0.30%)
Down to Earth Landscaping
1776 Columbus Avenue
Cleveland, Ohio 44113
$30,000.00 — (1%)
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.

The City Record

June 4, 2008
Resolution No. 257-08.
By Director Cox.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Balbo Industries DBA Fitness
Serve for the purchase of various
pieces of weight equipment, items C,
D, E, G, K, M, & N for the Earle B.
Turner Recreation Center, for the
Division of Recreation, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties,
received on March 28, 2008, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 20008, passed February 4, 2008, as
amended by Ordinance No. 294-08,
passed February 25, 2008, which on
the basis of the order quantity
would amount to $2,227.40, is approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties is requested to
enter into a contract for the items
with the bidder.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 258-08.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of C.D. Whitfield Company,
LLC, for the public improvement of
the building improvements for the
E.J. Kovacic Recreation Center boiler replacement, base bid, and alternates 1, 3 and 4, for the Department
of Parks, Recreation, and Properties, received on March 13, 2008,
under the authority of Ordinance No.
922-07, passed July 11, 2007, for a
gross price for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of $172,695, is
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bidder, and the
Director of Parks, Recreation, and
Properties is authorized to enter
into contract for the improvement
with the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractors by C.D. Whitfield
Company, LLC, is approved:
Subcontractor
MBE/FBE
Best Electric

Amount
Percentage
$5,000.00
2.9%

Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 259-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 003-34-005, 004-22094, located at West 45th Street

under the Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 246-08
passed May 12, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value and
Whereas, West 11th Street Properties LLC has proposed to the City
to purchase and develop the parcels
for new construction; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that under the authority of Ordinance No. 246-08 passed May 12,
2008, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is authorized to execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland
with West 11th Street Properties
LLC for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel Nos. 003-34-005,
004-22-094, as described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner
as best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcels shall be
$200.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value of the parcels for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 260-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 015-05-075, 015-05112 and 015-05-113, located at Meyer
Avenue under the Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 248-08
passed May 12, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Benson W. Dunlap has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcels for parking lot;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that under the authority of Ordinance No. 248-08 passed May 12,
2008, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is authorized to execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Benson W. Dunlap for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel Nos. 015-05-075, 015-05-112 and
015-05-113, as described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner
as best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcels shall be
$4,700.00, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair

1097

35
market value of the parcels for uses
according to the Land Reutilization
Program.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 261-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is a Land Reutilization Program according to the
provisions of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 110-08-062, located
at East 128th Street under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 247-08
passed May 12, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Clara K. Parrish has
proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
247-08 passed May 12, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Clara K. Parrish
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 110-08-062, as
described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$450.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 262-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according to the provisions of Chapter
5722 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 108-23-027 located at Born Avenue in Ward 8; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and

36
Whereas, Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the Parcel for
green space; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that under Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
requested to execute an Official
Deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, with Cleveland Housing Network, Inc. for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 108-23-027 located at Born Avenue, according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as
best carries out the intent of the
program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 263-08.
By Director Nichols.
Whereas, Board of Control Resolution No. 196-08, adopted April 22,
2008, under the authority of Ordinance No. 2197-88, passed January
30, 1989, as amended by Ordinances
Nos. 1458-90 and 1166-96, passed
June 18, 1990 and June 9, 1997,
respectively, directed the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to
sell certain parcels of the Chagrin
Highlands Development Area located in the City of Beachwood (“Property”) and no longer needed for
public use, to LTF Real Estate
Company, Inc. according to the
terms of the Master Development
Agreement (“MDA”) set forth in the
ordinance; and
Whereas, the Director of Economic Development desires to convey the Property to an additional
party and to convey to Chagrin
Highlands Ltd. various easement
rights in the Property and to file
supplemental covenants, conditions,
and restrictions related to the Property; and
Whereas, the City intended by
Resolution No. 196-08 to direct the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to convey Property to Chagrin
Highlands Ltd., as well as LTF Real

The City Record
Estate Company and to convey certain additional easement rights to
LTF Real Estate Company, Inc.;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, Resolution No. 196-08, adopted
April 22, 2008, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2197-88, passed January 30, 1989, as amended by Ordinances Nos. 1458-90 and 1166-96,
passed June 18, 1990 and June 9,
1997,
respectively,
directing
the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies (“Commissioner”) to sell certain parcels of the Chagrin Highlands Development Area located in
the City of Beachwood (“Property”)
and no longer needed for public use,
to LTF Real Estate Company, Inc.
is amended by adding Chagrin
Highlands, Ltd. as an additional
grantee. The Commissioner is also
directed to convey to Chagrin Highlands, Ltd an easement for landscaping and streetscape improvements and an easement for construction, installation, and maintenance of utilities. The total consideration to be paid for the Property
and easement rights conveyed under
Resolution No. 196-08, as amended
above, shall be $2,926,718.00 determined as provided by Section 4.2 of
the MDA.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor and the Commissioner are
requested to execute and deliver
the official deed or deeds of the
City of Cleveland conveying the
Property, including the execution
of necessary easements and declarations of covenants and restrictions that are contemplated under
the MDA.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Director Carroll, Acting Director Smith, Directors Cox,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. There-

1098

June 4, 2008
after, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICE
____________
ANNOUNCEMENTS — 2008
6/6/08 — 6/12/08
Announ- Exam Classicement Method fication
No.
27

EE

Auditor

28

WR

Water Meter
Dept. Unit
Leader

114A

WR

Exam
Type

(Open)

(Promo)

Sewer Service
Worker

(Open)

PROOF OF CITY RESIDENCY
Any applicant wishing to receive
residency credit will be asked to
show that he/she is a bona fide resident of the City of Cleveland. The
following list gives examples of
items that an applicant may present
at the time of filing. The Civil Service Commission requires a minimum of three items from at least
three different categories, where
applicable. All items must be current. Please note that presentation
of these items does not constitute
conclusive proof of bona fide residency.
Acceptable
categories
include, but are not limited to, the following:
Lease – from rental agency.
Lease – from independent party.
Must include copy of cancelled
check or money order receipts for
previous
rent
and/or
security
deposit, and fully executed; otherwise, it us unacceptable.
Utility bills bearing the
address and your name.

property

Post Office change of address form
properly date stamped.
Official documents relating to home
ownership including deed, purchase
agreement, or insurance policy.
Bank statements (Within last three
months).
School registration of children.
Car insurance documents.
Car registration or Driver’s License
or Ohio I.D. (One only).
Loans and credit card statements
(Within last three months).

The City Record

June 4, 2008
Rental contracts
tools, car, etc.).

(e.g.:

furniture,

Current bills not listed above (Within last three months).
The following are examples of unacceptable categories of proof:
Library cards.
Voter registration cards.
Birth certificates.
Notarized letters or affidavits.
Social Security card.
Rental receipts from independent
party without cancelled checks or
money order receipt.

APPROVED C.S.C MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 27
AUDITOR (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $20,092.80 - $54,905.76 per
year.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION
AND RECEIVED FOR ENTRANCE
TO THE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 2008
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
JUNE 12, 2008.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON, THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 2008.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: EXPERIENCE EVALUATION:
Applicant’s grade will be determined based on Education and
Experience found in Resume.
NOTE: Each applicant is required to
submit a detailed resume of his/her
education and experience at the
time of filing application.

37

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under supervision, audits and/or
examines various City or divisional
accounts. Prepares various required
financial and/or audit reports using
standard accounting procedures. Performs other job-related duties as required. Follows all operations and
safety policies and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may
be determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or GED is
required. A Bachelor’s Degree in
Accounting, Finance, Business, Public Administration or related field
from an accredited four (4) year college or university is required. One
(1) year of full time paid experience
in the Accounting/Business or Consulting field is required. (Substitution: Two years of relevant full time
paid experience may substitute for
each year of college education lacking). Should be knowledgeable in
Microsoft Office Suite and various
accounting software packages. Strong
written and verbal communication
skills are required. Must be able to
lift and carry a minimum of thirty
(30) pounds. A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s License is required.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS) filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such applicant upon the applicant’s request in
writing made within ten (10) days
after the date of examination.
NOTE: Applications must be returned in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses,
certificates,
and
resumes must be presented at the
time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.

APPROVED C.S.C MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 28
WATER
METER
DEPT.
LEADER (PROMOTIONAL)

UNIT

Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleve-

1099

land, Ohio of a Promotional examination for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $14.09 - $20.62 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION
AND RECEIVED FOR ENTRANCE
TO THE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 2008
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
JUNE 12, 2008.
NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 2008.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.
DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under general supervision, supervises the daily work crew engaged in
the meter operation of the water distribution system. Ensures that subordinates adhere to all City policies
and procedures. Oversees scheduled
repair work. Investigates and clears
meter complaints received. Gives
directions to assigned crew and
answers questions from superiors
and customers. Conducts field inspections and makes repairs. Fills
out requisitions and daily trip tickets of all jobs. Reads and deciphers
roll
maps
and
sections
sheets.
Writes comprehensive reports. Attends training classes as required.
Performs other job-related duties as
required. Follows all operations and
safety polices and safe work practices. Attends and participates in
operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence
(demonstration of competence may
be determined by exam.) Wears and
properly utilizes safety equipment
in accordance with Divisional policy
at all times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:

The City Record

38
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. Three (3) years of full
time paid field experience in the
repair of water appurtenances is
required, one year of field experience in repairing and calibrating
meters is preferred. Must be currently employed as a Water Meter
Repair Worker (Regular Status) or
as a TA Water Meter Department
Unit Leader with the City of Cleveland. A valid State of Ohio Driver’s
License is required. Must be able to
lift and carry a minimum of 75
pounds. Computer experience with
Microsoft Office is preferred. A valid
State of Ohio Distribution I, II, or
III License is preferred. Must be
able to work in confined spaces and
be able to sit and stand for long
periods of time and in all types of
weather.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS)
filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(ten) days after the date of examination.
NOTE: Applications must be returned in person. All copies of
diplomas, licenses, certificates, and
resumes must be presented at the
time of filing.
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
APPROVED C.S.C MINUTES
ANNOUNCEMENT NO. 114A
SEWER SERVICE WORKER (OPEN)
Public notice is hereby given by the
Civil Service Commission of Cleveland, Ohio of an Open examination
for the above mentioned classification.
SALARY
The prevailing salary range for this
position as established by Ordinance
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is $14.99 - $18.34 per hour.
FILING OF APPLICATION
Application must be made on the
regular application form available
at the Office of the Civil Service
Commission, 601 Lakeside Avenue,
Room 119. No other form will be
accepted. APPLICATIONS WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION
AND RECEIVED FOR ENTRANCE
TO THE EXAMINATION FROM 8:30
A.M. ON FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 2008
UNTIL 4:30 P.M. ON THURSDAY,
JUNE 12, 2008.

NOTE: APPLICATIONS WILL NOT
BE ACCEPTED AFTER 4:30 P.M.
ON THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 2008.
THE
CIVIL
SERVICE
COMMISSION’S POLICY IS THAT NO LATE
FILING WILL BE ALLOWED.
EXAMINATION INFORMATION
TYPE: WRITTEN EXAMINATION
NOTE: THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION RESERVES THE RIGHT
TO REVIEW AND EVALUATE ANY
AND
ALL
INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THE APPLICATION OR
RESUME.
LACK
OF
HONESTY
WILL RESULT IN IMMEDIATE
REMOVAL FROM THE ELIGIBLE
LIST.

June 4, 2008
NOTE: Any applicant who resigns or
is dismissed from employment with
the City of Cleveland will have
his/her name removed from the eligible list.
NOTE: Those persons who are residents of the City of Cleveland and
who received passing Scores shall
have ten (10) additional points
added to their grades. See accompanying list of acceptable forms of
proof of residency applicants need
to present at the time of filing.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President
June 4, 2008

DUTIES OF THE POSITION
Under immediate supervision and
instruction, carries out tasks related to operation, maintenance, and
repairs to sewers, manholes, and
catch
basins.
Performs
related
duties as required. Follows all
operations and safety polices and
safe work practices. Attends and
participates in operations and safety training classes and demonstrates competence (demonstration
of competence may be determined
by exam.) Wears and properly utilizes safety equipment in accordance with Divisional policy at all
times.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR
ENTRANCE TO THIS EXAMINATION AS ESTABLISHED BY THE
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND ARE
AS FOLLOWS:
A High School Diploma or G.E.D. is
required. Previous labor experience
is preferred. A valid State of Ohio
Driver’s License is required. Must
have the capability to operate a
jackhammer. Availability for overtime is required.
NOTE: The above minimum qualifications will be in effect for anyone
hired in this classification on or
after January 1, 2008. Those persons
who applied and have yet to test do
not have to file again.
NOTE: Applicants will be required
to pay a $10.00 (TEN DOLLARS)
filing fee. Applicants who are currently employed in this position
with the City of Cleveland are
exempt. However, that when an
applicant is disqualified from taking an examination on the basis of
age, education or failure to meet
other minimum entrance requirements, the fee paid by such applicant shall be refunded to such
applicant
upon
the
applicant’s
request in writing made within ten
(10) days after the date of examination.
NOTE: Applications must be returned in person. All copies of diplomas,
licenses,
certificates,
and
resumes must be presented at the
time of filing.

1100

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, JUNE 16, 2008
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 08-91: 3905 Brooklyn
Avenue (Ward 16)
Janae Whitmore, owner, appeals
to change use from a two family
dwelling house to a Group Home an
existing three-story residence, located on a 40' x 143' parcel in a B1
Two-Family District at 3905 Brooklyn Avenue; subject to the limitations of Section 337.03 the proposed
use is not permitted but is first permitted in a Multi-Family District as
stated in Section 337.08 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 08-95: 17214-18 Grovewood Avenue (Ward 11)
Marlon Davis appeals to establish
use for a beverage/deli in an existing two-story mixed use building
located on a 100' x 129' corner parcel in a Multi-Family District on
the southwest corner of Grovewood
Avenue and East 173rd Street at
17214-18 Grovewood Avenue; subject
to the limitations of Section 337.08,
the proposed use is not permitted in
a Multi-Family District but first
permitted in a Local Retail Business District, and the provisions of
Section 343.18(d) require the maximum width of a driveway to be 30
feet measured at right angles to
the angle of the driveway entrance,
and an 8 foot wide landscaped transition strip that creates a 75 percent year-round opacity is required
along the south side of the lot,
according to Sections 352.10 and
352.11; and the substitution of a
nonconforming use requires the
Board of Zoning Appeals approval,
according to Section 359.01(a) of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 08-97: 12510 Triskett
Road (Ward 19)
Triskett
Road
Storage
LLC,
owner, and Clear Channel Outdoor,
tenant, appeal to change an existing billboard to a digital electronic billboard unit, located on an

The City Record

June 4, 2008
acreage parcel in a Semi-Industry
District
on
the
north
side
of
Triskett Road at 12510 Triskett
Road; contrary to a denied permit
application on February 29, 2008
and the required approval from the
City Planning Commission for replacement/reconstruction of an existing nonconforming billboard, according to the provisions of Section
350.10(1)
of
the
Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 08-98: 3919 Lorain Avenue (Ward 14)
Rachland Corporation and Mark
Pestak, owner, and Meagen Kresge,
tenant, appeal to erect an 8' x 8'
chicken enclosure on an irregular
shaped parcel located in a Local
Retail business and Semi-Industry
split zoning district on the south
side of Lorain Avenue at 3919
Lorain Avenue; contrary to Section
347.02(c), the proposed enclosure is
within approximately 55 feet of a
residence and it may not be less
than 100 feet from an existing residence building on other premises in
any use district nor from any obvious residence building site on other
premises lot in a Residence District;
and subject to the limitations of Section 343.01 an urban garden is proposed and not located in an Urban
Garden District as provided in the
provisions of Chapter 336 of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 08-99: 3169 Scranton
Road (Ward 14)
Salwa Race, owner, appeals to
install parking spaces in the front
yard setback of a 36.75' x 183.80'
parcel located in a Local Retail
Business District on the east side of
Scranton Road at 3169 Scranton
Road; subject to the requirements
for off-street parking, such spaces
shall be located behind the setback
building line and no such parking
space shall be located within 10 feet
of any wall of a residential building, if such wall contains a ground
floor opening designed to provide
light or ventilation for such building as stated in Section 349.05 of the
Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, JUNE 2, 2008
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, June 2,
2008, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.

Calendar No. 08-87: 771 Brayton Avenue
Sutton Builders, LLC appealed to
change use from a single family residence to a two family residence an
existing dwelling in a B1 Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 08-88: 3228 West 58th
Street
Russell Haynik appealed to change
use from a single family residence
to a two family residence an existing dwelling in a B1 Two-Family
District.
Calendar No. 08-89: 3215 East 55th
Street
Edgewood Park LP, owner, and
Cleveland Housing Network, appealed to construct a 63 units apartment building in a Residence Office
District and a 22 spaces accessory
off-street parking lot in a B1 TwoFamily District; subject to conditions.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
None.
The following appeals were Dismissed:
Calendar No. 08-86: 3326 Poe Avenue
Urban Investments Group appealed
to erect a two-story frame dwelling
with detached garage in a B1 TwoFamily District.
Calendar No. 08-30: 603 Herschel
Court
Brian Devine appealed to construct a two-story room addition to
a single family dwelling in a B1
Two-Family District.
The following appeal was Postponed:
Calendar No. 08-27: 13013 Corlett
Avenue postponed to July 14,
2008.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on May 27, 2008 were
adopted and approved on June 2,
2008.
Calendar No. 08-78: 3239 West 73rd
Street
James McCoy appealed to construct a new one-story HVAC shop
and office building on a parcel
located in a Two-Family and MultiFamily split zoning district; subject
to condition.

The following appeals were Approved:

Calendar No. 08-82: 1725 Fulton Road
Michael Dougherty appealed to
erect a 7 foot by 10 foot wolmanized
wooden landing and stair to an
existing second floor rear porch of
a single family dwelling in a B1
Two-Family District.

Calendar No. 08-79: 1023 Kenilworth
Avenue
Betley Books, LLC appealed to expand a retail book store by adding
an outdoor patio with food and beverage service and live entertainment
in a Local Retail Business district;
subject to conditions.

Calendar No. 08-84: 9718-22 Buckeye
Road
Bryant Johnson appealed to establish use as a parking lot proposed
to be on a consolidated parcel in a
General Retail and Semi-Industry
split zoning district; subject to condition.

1101

39
The following appeal was Denied:
None.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on May 12, 2008 was adopted
and approved by the Board on June
2, 2008.
Calendar No. 08-73: 2133-35 West 6th
Street
Main Street Builders appealed to
erect a three-story two family dwelling on an irregular shaped corner
parcel in a B1 Multi-Family District;
subject to conditions.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Re: Report of the Meeting of
May 28, 2008
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
* * *
Docket A-82-06.
RE: Appeal of FPT Cleveland
Real Estate LLC/FPT Cleveland
LLC, Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 8500
Aetna Road from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — UNAUTHORIZED USE
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated June
29, 2006, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action, the docket will remain
open and rescheduled in ninety (90)
days (September 3, 2008).
* * *
Docket A-48-08.
RE: Appeal of FPT Cleveland
Real Estate LLC/FPT Cleveland
LLC, Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 8500
Aetna Road from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — UNAUTHORIZED USE,
dated March 31, 2008 of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket is
rescheduled for June 11, 2008.
* * *

Docket A-49-08.
RE: Appeal of Rosemary Lennon,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single Family Residence Two and
One/half Story Frame Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 1770 Hillview Road from
a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — EX-

The City Record

40
TERIOR
MAINTENANCE,
dated
March 4, 2008 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-49-08 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for June
11, 2008.
* * *
Docket A-52-08.
RE: Appeal of William B. Sancho,
Owner of the Two Story Masonry
Property located on the premises
known as 1817 Alcoy Street from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — HAZARD OTHER, dated February 27,
2008, and from a 30 DAY FIRE
DAMAGE REPAIR — MS, dated
August 15, 2006 of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant ninety (90) days in which
to abate the violations; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-56-08.
RE: Appeal of Robert Modic,
Owner of the One Story Masonry
Property located on the premises
known as 1655 East 55th Street
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
ILLEGAL USE of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, dated March 17, 2008,
requiring
compliance
with
the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-56-08 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for June
25, 2008.
* * *
Docket A-57-08.
RE: Appeal of Brian Slover, Owner
of the Two Dwelling Units TwoFamily Residence Two Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 3176 West 104th Street
from a FORTHWITH CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS of the Director
of the Department of Building and
Housing, dated March 18, 2008,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Forthwith Condemnation Order —
MS, was properly issued and that
the property located at 3176 West
104th Street is REMANDED at this
time to the Department of Building
and Housing for supervision and
any required further action. Motion

so in order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley
and seconded by Mr. Saunders.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-58-08.
RE:
Appeal
of
Larry
&
Pat
George, Owners of the Mixed UsesMultiple Uses In One Building Two
and One/half Story Masonry Property located on the premises known as
4176 Rocky River Drive from a
NOTICE OF VIOLATION — HVAC
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated March
10, 2008, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-58-08 has been POSTPONED, to be rescheduled for June
11, 2008.

June 4, 2008
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 30 Villa Beach
Drive from a 7 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, dated July 27, 2007,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant two (2) weeks in which
to obtain permits and ninety (90)
days in which to abate the violations; noting that should either date
be missed, the property is REMANDED at either date to the Department
of Building and Housing for supervision and any required further
action. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr.
Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.

* * *
* * *
Docket A-62-08.
RE: Appeal of Village Green
Elderly,
LLC/NRP
Group,
LLC,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 18235 Euclid
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated April 28, 2008, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance required to construct the property as depicted on the drawings at
this time, noting that the twenty
(20) foot easement requirement only
is a one hour separation and the
wall will be constructed as such
including appropriate sprinklers at
the windows, and permitting the
porch to be built as indicated, noting that future considerations can
be made to make that compliant.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Saunders
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-65-08.
RE: Appeal of DaPhine C. Adams,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single Family Residence One and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
4347 East 167th Street from a 30
DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MS of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
dated March 24, 2008, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-65-08 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for June
11, 2008.
* * *
Docket A-68-08.
RE: Appeal of Countrywide Home
Loans, Inc., Mortgagee of the Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two and One/half Story

1102

Docket A-73-08.
RE: Appeal of BPC Redevelopment, LLC & BEDO, LLC, Owner of
the Property located on the premises
known as 2020 Euclid Avenue from
an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated April 28,
2008, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled for June 11,
2008.
* * *
Docket A-77-08.
RE: Appeal of MRN, Ltd., Owner
of the Property located on the
premises known as 711 Vincent
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER #3 of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated May 22, 2008, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and
the
Ohio
Building
Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance requested for the easement to
the east from six (6) feet to recognize the double easement of
twelve (12) feet total, with the provision that the Appellant enclose
and make compliant the parking
garage should that easement disappear; and to grant the variance to
permit the upper two (2) decks to
be considered open parking with
the provision that the two adjacent
sides open constitute 40 percent of
those two sides that meet the definition of an open parking garage;
that the six foot seven inch (6' 7')
high limitation of the beams is
granted with appropriate and proper signage and with the van and
accessibility requirements met at
another structure; and that the
greater than 1:15 slope be granted,
noting that there are accessible
pedestrian exits on each level, and
that the slope shall exceed 37 percent. Motion so in order. Motioned

June 4, 2008

The City Record

by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley Nays: None

PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

* * *
EXTENSION OF TIME:

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________

Docket A-22-08 — 9105 Union
Avenue — WARD: 5 (Phyllis Cleveland).
Victoria Roberts, Owner of the
One Dwelling Unit Single Family
Residence Two and One/half Story
Frame Property appeals from a 30
DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER —
MS, dated January 30, 2008; appellant would request until the spring
of 2008 in which to start abatement
of the violations and would still
need about seven (7) months to a
year in which complete abatement
of the violations: The Board heard
this case April 16, 2008, at which
time the Appellant was granted four
(4) weeks in which to take action
to demolish the property; the property was REMANDED to the Department of Building and Housing: The
Appellant has requested additional
time.
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to abate the violations; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-26-08—Mary E. Wilson.
A-47-08—SNGC, LLC.
A-50-08—Cornel Popa.
A-51-08—Karl Gorisek.
A-63-08—Dustin Pennington.
A-72-08—Cargill Inc.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
May 14, 2008
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Secretary

Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Monday, June 9, 2008
9:00 a.m.
Notice is hereby given to all interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning
will hold a public hearing in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
217, City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio, on
Monday, June 9, 2008, at 9:00 a.m., to
consider the following ordinances
now pending in the Council:
Ord. No. 1266-07.
By Council Member Turner.
An ordinance changing the Use
Districts of property located on the
north and south sides of Miles
Avenue between East 167th Street
and the City Boundary to RA-2
Townhouse and Residence Industry
as shown on the attached map (Map
Change No.2239, Sheet No. 10).
Ord. No. 1268-07.
By Council Member Zone.
An ordinance changing the Use
Districts of parcels on the north
and south sides of Lorain Road
between West 80th Street and West
73rd Street to a Local Retail Business District (Map Change No. 2240,
Sheets 1 & 2).
Ord. No. 2023-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the zoning of parcels on the northeast corner of Marquette Street and Saint
Clair Avenue from Semi-Industry to
Local Retail Business (Map Change
No. 2247 Sheet No. 4).
Ord. No. 460-08.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1977-07,
passed January 28, 2008, relating to
the establishment of the FranklinWest Clinton Historic District.
Ord. No. 559-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An ordinance expanding the Clark
Metro Business Revitalization District to include lands along Clark
Avenue between Fulton Road and
Walworth Avenue as shown shaded
on the attached map (Map Change
No. 2260, Sheet Numbers 1 & 2).
Ord. No. 560-08.
By Council Member Zone.
An
ordinance
establishing
a
Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO)
District on Detroit Avenue and Lake
Avenue between West 48th Street
and West 77th Street shown shaded
on the attached map (Map Change
No. 2261, Sheet Number 1).

1103

41
Ord. No. 567-08.
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance establishing the Lorain Variety Historic
District (Map Change No. 2259, Sheet
No. 2).
Ord. No. 653-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land located on the north
east corner of East 55th Street and
Superior Avenue, shown shaded on
the attached map, from General
Retail Business to Residence Office
District. (Map Change Number 2263,
Sheet No. 4).
Ord. No. 703-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the Use
District of land located on the southeast corner of East 55th Street and
Saint Clair Avenue, shown shaded
on the attached map, from General
Retail Business to Residence Office
District. (Map Change Number 2264,
Sheet No. 4).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
Joseph C. Cimperman
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
_____
May 28, 2008 and June 4, 2008

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall,
in
accordance
with
the
appended schedule, and will be
opened and read in Room 128, City
Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to com-

The City Record

42
ply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11, 2008
File No. 123-08 — Gordon Park Playground Site Improvements, for the
Division of Research, Planning
and Development, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
as authorized by Ordinance No.
690-07, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland, June 11,
2007.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, JUNE 5, 2008 AT
10:00 A.M., THE BURKE LAKEFRONT AIRPORT, FIRST FLOOR
CONFERENCE ROOM, 1501 NORTH
MARGINAL ROAD, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
File No. 121-08 — Mayor’s Office
Complex Carpeting, for the Division of Architecture, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 485-07, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF A FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00)
IN THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY,
JUNE 5, 2008 AT 11:00 A.M., THE
DIVISION OF ARCHITECTURE,
ROOM
#517,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERRENCE.

tration, Department of Public
Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1033-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 26, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 2008 AT 10:30
A.M.,
THE
PUBLIC
SAFETY
DEPARTMENT,
CONFERENCE
ROOM 230, 601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
May 28, 2008 and June 4, 2008
THURSDAY, JUNE 19, 2008
File No. 122-08 — HVAC/R Supplies
and Equipment, for the Division
of Property Management, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1033-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 26, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11, 2008 AT
2:30 P.M., THE DIVISION OF
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, 4150
EAST 49TH STREET, BUILDING
#2,
UPSTAIRS
CONFERENCE
ROOM, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
May 28, 2008 and June 4, 2008
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 25, 2008
File No. 120-08 — Labor and Materials
Necessary to Maintain Fire Alarm
Systems Including Inspection, Repair and Related Services, for the
Division of Property Management,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1033-07, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, November 26, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
FRIDAY, JUNE 13, 2008 AT 2:30
P.M., THE DIVISION OF PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, 4150 EAST
49TH STREET, BUILDING #2,
UPSTAIRS CONFERENCE ROOM,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
May 28, 2008 and June 4, 2008
THURSDAY, JUNE 26, 2008

May 28, 2008 and June 4, 2008
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 18, 2008
File No. 124-08 — Purchase, Delivery and Installation of Three
Digital
Plotters
with
Maintenance and Supplies, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 173407, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, November 12,
2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, JUNE 10, 2008 AT
10:00 A.M., THE CLEVELAND
PUBLIC POWER, 1300 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
File No. 125-08 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Service and
Maintain Elevators, for the Division of Public Safety Adminis-

File No. 127-08 — Interior Renovations Fire Station No. 43, for the
Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 490-07,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 4, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF A FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00)
IN THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING
THURSDAY, JUNE 12, 2008 AT
2:00 P.M., THE FIRE STATION
NO. 43, 4525 ROCKY RIVER
DRIVE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44135-3857.
June 4, 2008 and June 11, 2008

1104

June 4, 2008
FRIDAY, JULY 11, 2008
File No. 126-08 — Filter and Masonry Rehabilitation Project Crown
Water Works Plant Project No.
554, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 27008, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, May 5, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF A ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
($100.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR
MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING
FRIDAY, JUNE 13, 2008 AT 1:00
P.M., THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
MAIN AUDITORIUM, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
June 4, 2008 and June 11, 2008

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
NONE

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Monday, June 2, 2008
10:00 a.m.
Public Service Committee: Present:
Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice Chair;
Polensek, Cummins, Reed. Authorized Absence: Johnson, Santiago,
Cleveland,
White.
Protempore:
Coats.
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair;
Brady, Zone, Westbrook, Brancatelli, Coats, Turner, White, Conwell,
Pierce Scott.
Tuesday, June 3, 2008
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Cimperman, Cummins, Coats, Westbrook,
Brady,
Zone.
Authorized
Absence: Lewis.
Wednesday, June 4, 2008
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice Chair;
Mitchell, Polensek, Coats, Kelley,
Cummins, Turner. Authorized Absence:
Santiago.
1:30 p.m.
Public Utilities Committee: Present:
Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice Chair; Cleveland, Polensek, Cummins, Keane, Kelley, Westbrook. Authorized Absence:
Santiago.

The City Record

June 4, 2008

43

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments
Agreements
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — Street lighting Rate (O 682-08) . . . . . .
Community Development — FBE Inc. — Morgana East Project (O 871-08) . . . . . . . .
Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Downtown Digs — Economic Development
(Ward 13 NEF) (O 894-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. — between West 150th Street and Fairview Hospital — electric line
underground — public improvement — Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. —
Amend Ord. 985-06 (O 634-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation of Belvoir Boulevard (Euclid Ave. & South Euclid) — amend Ord.
2332-03 (O 690-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093

American Lung Association
Asthma Walk (Annual) — May 31, 2008 — permit (O 903-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Aetna Road, 8500, (Ward 2) — FPT Cleveland Real Estate LLC/FPT Cleveland LLC, owner —
appeal rescheduled to 09/03/08 on 5/28/2008 (Doc. A-82-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Alcoy Street, 1817, (Ward 10) — William B. Sancho, owner — appeal resolved on
5/28/08 (Doc. A-52-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 104th Street, 2875, (Ward 4) — SNGC, LLC, mortgagee — appeal adopted on 5/28/08
(Doc. A-47-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 167th Street, 4347, (Ward 1) — DaPhine C. Adams, owner — appeal postponed to
06/11/08 on 5/28/08 (Doc. A-65-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street, 1655, (Ward 7) — Robert Modic, owner — appeal postponed to 06/25/08 on
5/28/08 (Doc. A-56-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 18235, (Ward 10) — Village Green Elderly, LLC/NRP Group, LLC, owner —
appeal resolved on 5/28/08 (Doc. A-62-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 2020, (Ward 11) — BPC Redevelopment, LLC & BEDO, LLC, owner — appeal
postponed to 06/11/08 on 5/28/08 (Doc. A-73-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hillview Road, 1770, (Ward 10) — Rosemary Lennon, owner — appeal rescheduled to 06/11/08
on 5/28/08 (Doc. A-49-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Linwood Avenue, 5903, (Ward 7) — Mary E. Wilson, owner — appeal adopted on 5/28/2008
(Doc. A-26-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morton Avenue, 6179, (Ward 12) — Dustin Pennington, owner — appeal adopted on
5/28/08 (Doc. A-63-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 4176, (Ward 21) — Larry & Pat George, owners — appeal postponed
to 06/11/08 on 5/28/08 (Doc. A-58-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Avenue, 9105, (Ward 5) — Victoria Roberts, owner — extension of time granted
on 5/28/2008 (Doc. A-22-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Villa Beach Drive, 30, (Ward 11) — Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., mortgagee — appeal
resolved on 5/28/08 (Doc. A-68-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vincent Avenue, 711, (Ward 13) — MRN, Ltd., owner — appeal resolved on 5/28/08
(Doc. A-77-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 104th Street, 3176, (Ward 19) — Brian Slover, owner — appeal resolved on
5/28/08 (Doc. A-57-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 50th Street, 3305, (Ward 14) — Cornel Popa, owner — appeal adopted on 5/28/08
(Doc. A-50-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Westropp Avenue, 14503, (Ward 10) — Karl Gorisek, owner — appeal adopted on 5/28/08
(Doc. A-51-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Whiskey Island Drive, 2400, (Ward 17) — Cargill Inc., owner — appeal adopted on 5/28/08
(Doc. A-72-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1102
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1102
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1102
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1102
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1102
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1102
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1102
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1102
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1102
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103

Board of Control — City of Beachwood
Sell parcels — amend BOC Res. 196-08 (BOC Res. 263-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Board of Control — Community Development Department
Born Avenue (Ward 8) — PPN 108-23-027 — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(BOC Res. 262-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 128th Street (Ward 10) — PPN 110-08-062 — Clara K. Parrish per Ord. 247-08
(BOC Res. 261-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meyer Avenue (Ward 14) — PPN 015-05-075/112/113 — Benson W. Dunlap per Ord. 248-08
(BOC Res. 260-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 45th Street (Ward 13) — PPN 003-34-005, 004-22-094 — West 11th Street Properties,
LLC per Ord. 246-08 (BOC Res. 259-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1105

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097

The City Record

44

June 4, 2008

Board of Control — Earle B. Turner Recreation Center
Weight equipment — contract per Ord. 200-08, 294-08 to Balbo Industries, d.b.a.,
Fitness Serve — Division of Recreation, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 257-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Board of Control — Engineering and Construction Division
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, ramps, etc., repairing (2008 Concrete) —
contract per Ord. 1070-07 to Perk Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 256-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Board of Control — Finance Department
Sell parcels in City of Beachwood — amend BOC Res. 196-08 (BOC Res. 263-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
Born Avenue (Ward 8) — PPN 108-23-027 — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(BOC Res. 262-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 128th Street (Ward 10) — PPN 110-08-062 — Clara K. Parrish per Ord. 247-08
(BOC Res. 261-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meyer Avenue (Ward 14) — PPN 015-05-075/112/113 — Benson W. Dunlap per Ord. 248-08
(BOC Res. 260-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 45th Street (Ward 13) — PPN 003-34-005, 004-22-094 — West 11th Street Properties,
LLC per Ord. 246-08 (BOC Res. 259-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097

Board of Control — Land Sales
Sell parcels in City of Beachwood — amend BOC Res. 196-08 (BOC Res. 263-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098
Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Boiler replacement at E.J. Kovacic Recreation Center — contract per Ord. 922-07 to C.D.
Whitfield Company, LLC (BOC Res. 258-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Weight equipment for Earle B. Turner Recreation Center — contract per Ord. 200-08,
294-08 to Balbo Industries, d.b.a., Fitness Serve — Division of Recreation
(BOC Res. 257-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Design engineering services for Morgan Chemical Facility Project — contract per Ord.
68-98, 94-99 to ARCADIS U.S., Inc. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 250-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
General IT consulting services — contract per Ord. 1954-06 to RNR Consulting —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Boiler replacement at E.J. Kovacic Recreation Center — contract per Ord. 922-07 to
C.D. Whitfield Company, LLC — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 258-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, ramps, etc., repairing (2008 Concrete) — contract per
Ord. 1070-07 to Perk Company, Inc. — Division of Engineering and Construction, Dept.
of Public Service (BOC Res. 256-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Board of Control — Public Service Department
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, ramps, etc., repairing (2008 Concrete) —
contract per Ord. 1070-07 to Perk Company, Inc. — Division of Engineering
and Construction (BOC Res. 256-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Design engineering services for Morgan Chemical Facility Project — contract per Ord.
68-98, 94-99 to ARCADIS U.S., Inc. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 250-08) . . . . . . . . .
General IT consulting services — contract per Ord. 1954-06 to RNR Consulting —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area A),
repair or replace — contract per Ord. 98-08 to Utilicon Corp. — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 252-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area B),
repair or replace — contract per Ord. 98-08 to Utilicon Corp. — Division of Water
(BOC Res. 253-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1106

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095

June 4, 2008

The City Record

45

Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area C),
repair or replace — contract per Ord. 98-08 to Coleman Spohn Corporation —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 254-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances (Area D),
repair or replace — contract per Ord. 98-08 to Coleman Spohn Corporation —
Division of Water (BOC Res. 255-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sell parcels in City of Beachwood — amend BOC Res. 196-08 (BOC Res. 263-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1098

Board of Control — Recreation Division
Weight equipment for Earle B. Turner Recreation Center — contract per
Ord. 200-08, 294-08 to Balbo Industries, d.b.a., Fitness Serve —
Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 257-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances
(Area A), repair or replace — contract per Ord. 98-08 to Utilicon Corp. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 252-08) . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances
(Area B), repair or replace — contract per Ord. 98-08 to Utilicon Corp. —
Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 253-08) . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances
(Area C), repair or replace — contract per Ord. 98-08 to Coleman Spohn
Corporation — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 254-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances
(Area D), repair or replace — contract per Ord. 98-08 to Coleman Spohn
Corporation — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 255-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096

Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Weight equipment for Earle B. Turner Recreation Center — contract
per Ord. 200-08, 294-08 to Balbo Industries, d.b.a., Fitness Serve —
Division of Recreation, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 257-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1097

Board of Control — Water Division
Design engineering services for Morgan Chemical Facility Project —
contract per Ord. 68-98, 94-99 to ARCADIS U.S., Inc. — Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 250-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General IT consulting services — contract per Ord. 1954-06 to RNR Consulting —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances
(Area A), repair or replace — contract per Ord. 98-08 to Utilicon Corp. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 252-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances
(Area B), repair or replace — contract per Ord. 98-08 to Utilicon Corp. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 253-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances
(Area C), repair or replace — contract per Ord. 98-08 to Coleman Spohn
Corporation — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 254-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains, fire hydrants, valves, service connections and appurtenances
(Area D), repair or replace — contract per Ord. 98-08 to Coleman Spohn
Corporation — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 255-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1095

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1096

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Brayton Avenue, 771, (Ward 13) — Sutton Builders, LLC, owners — appeal heard on 6/2/2008
(Cal. 08-87) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Road, 9718-22, (Ward 4) — Bryant Johnson, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
6/2/08 (Cal. 08-84). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corlett Avenue, 13013, (Ward 2) — The Cleveland Metropolitan School District, owner and
Jeff Henderson, agent — appeal postponed to 7/14/08 on 6/2/2008 (Cal. 08-27) . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street, 3215, (Ward 12) — Edgewood Park LP, owner, and Cleveland Housing
Network — appeal heard on 6/2/2008 (Cal. 08-89) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Road, 1725, (Ward 13) — Michael Dougherty, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
6/2/08 (Cal. 08-82). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1107

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101

The City Record

46

June 4, 2008

Herschel Court, 603, (Ward 13) — Brian Devine, owner — appeal dismissed on 6/2/2008
(Cal. 08-30) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101
Kenilworth Avenue, 1023, (Ward 13) — Betley Books, LLC, owner — appeal heard on 6/2/2008
(Cal. 08-79) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101
Poe Avenue, 3326, (Ward 15) — Urban Investments Group, owner, and Ken White —
appeal dismissed on 6/2/2008 (Cal. 08-86) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101
West 58th Street, 3228, (Ward 17) — Russell Haynik, owner — appeal heard on 6/2/2008
(Cal. 08-88) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101
West 6th Street, 2133-35, (Ward 13) — Main Street Builders, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 6/2/2008 (Cal. 08-73) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101
West 73rd Street, 3239, (Ward 17) — James McCoy, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
6/2/08 (Cal. 08-78). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Brooklyn Avenue, 3905, (Ward 16) — Janae Whitmore, owner — appeal to be heard
on 6/16/2008 (Cal. 08-91) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1100
Grovewood Avenue, 17214-18, (Ward 11) — Marlon Davis, owner — appeal to be heard on
6/16/2008 (Cal. 08-95) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1100
Lorain Avenue, 3919, (Ward 14) — Rachland Corporation and Mark Pestak, owner,
and Meagan Kresge, tenant — appeal to be heard on 6/16/2008 (Cal. 08-98) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101
Scranton Road, 3169, (Ward 14) — Salwa Race, owner — appeal to be heard on 6/16/2008
(Cal. 08-99) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1101
Triskett Avenue, 12510, (Ward 19) — Triskett Road Storage LLC, owner,
and Clear Channel Outdoor, tenant — appeal to be heard on 6/16/2008
(Cal. 08-97) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1100

Building and Housing Department
Utility shut-off in vacant and unsafe structures — new Section 3103.091 —
substitute for Ord. No. 1112-07 (O 1112-A-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090

City Council
Fees for publications and services — amend Sect. 113.12 (O 898-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Iron Mountain Information Management Inc., — payment for underground storage
(O 893-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Record of Vote — record as yea, passed and adopted legislation on May 19, 2008 meeting
(F 905-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065

City Hall
City of Cleveland (main telephone line) — professional service to provide
after-hour answering services (O 728-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094

City of Cleveland Bids
Carpet for Mayor’s Office Complex — Department of Public Service —
Division of Architecture — per Ord. 485-07 — bid due June 11, 2008
(advertised 5/28/2008 and 6/4/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1104
Crown Water Works Plant filter and masonry rehabilitation project (Project No. 554) —
Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 270-08 — bid
due July 11, 2008 (advertised 6/4/2008 and 6/11/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1104
Digital plotters — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland Public Power —
per Ord. 1734-07 — bid due June 18, 2008 (advertised 5/28/2008 and 6/4/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1104
Elevator maintenance and repair — Department of Public Safety — per Ord. 1033-07 —
bid due June 18, 2008 (advertised 5/28/2008 and 6/4/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1104
Fire alarm system maintenance, inspection and repair — Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties — Division of Property Management —
per Ord. 1033-07 — bid due June 25, 2008 (advertised 5/28/2008 and 6/4/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1104
Fire Station No. 43 interior renovations — Department of Public Service —
Division of Architecture — per Ord. 490-07 — bid due June 26, 2008
(advertised 6/4/2008 and 6/11/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1104
Gordon Park Playgrond site improvements — Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties — Division of Research, Planning and Development — per Ord. 690-07 —
bid due June 11, 2008 (advertised 5/28/2008 and 6/4/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1104
HVAC/R supplies and equipment — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Property Management — per Ord. 1033-07 — bid due June 19, 2008
(advertised 5/28/2008 and 6/4/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1104

1108

June 4, 2008

The City Record

47

City Planning Commission
Amend sect. 1 of Ord. 1977-07 — Franklin-West Clinton Historic District (O 460-08) . . . . . . .
Change the Use District — N.E. corner of E.55th St. & Superior Ave. — Residence Office
District (O 653-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use District — E. 55th St. & Saint Clair Ave., (southeast corner) — Residence
Office District (O 703-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Ave., (west of W. 65th St.) — change Use Districts — City Planning Commission
( Ward 17) (O 875-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establishing a Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — Detroit Ave., & Lake Ave.
(between W. 48th St. & W. 77th St.) (O 560-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establishing the Lorain Variety Historic District — (Ward 19) (O 567-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Expanding Clark Metro Business Revitalization District — Clark Ave., & Fulton Rd.
& Walworth Ave. (O 559-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glenview Field — name change — Roosevelt Kirby Field (O 877-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Rd. south (between W. 80th St. & W. 73rd St.) — Change the Use Districts
Local Retail Business District (O 1268-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marquette St. & St. Clair Ave. (northwest corner) — change the zoning — Local Retail
Business (O 2023-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave. (between E. 167th St & City boundary) — Change the Use Districts — RA-2
Townhouse & Residence Industry (O 1266-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103

City-owned facilities
Solicit proposals to management common use areas at CHIA — contracts — Port Control Dept
(O 859-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1068
Clerk of Council
Fees for publications and services — amend Sect. 113.12 (O 898-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI)
Lorain Ave. — between West 150th Street and Fairview Hospital —
electric line underground — public improvement — agreement —
Amend Ord. 985-06 (O 634-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Street lighting Rate (O 682-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Cleveland Municipal Court
Apply & accept grant — Get on Track Program (O 725-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Case Management and Cannabis Youth Treatment for Young Offenders Program —
grant from SAMHSA (O 727-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contract — Iron Mountain /National Underground Storage — for the storage of records
(O 855-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Domestic Intervention, Education & Training (D.I.E.T.) Program — grant (O 733-08) . .
Domestic Violence Case Processing — grant (O 726-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093

Cleveland Public Power
Energy adjustment charge — amend 523.21 — amend Ord. 2068-05 (O 681-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Cleveland State University
Apply & Accept grant PUCO Hazmat Training — Safety Dept. (O 864-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Contracts — for data services & various reports — Community Development
(O 759-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Codified Ordinances
Amend Sects. 573.02, 573.04, 573.05, 573.10 & 573.99 — bulkhead repair notice
(O 861-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Assessments and Licenses expense fund — enacting new Sect. 127.38 (O 857-08) . . . . . . . . .
Authorization to purchase software licenses, updates, upgrades, enhancements, training,
technical support — amend Sect. 181.102 (O 856-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City wide contracts — amend Section 181.101 (O 497-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Public Power energy adjustment charge — amend 523.21 — amend Ord. 2068-05
(O 681-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Entertainment Districts — CHIA — amend Sect. 699A.011 (O 897-08). . . . . . . . .
Enacting new Sect. 535.23 — amend Sect. 535.06 Codified Ordinances — payment plans —
Water Division — Utilities Department (O 347-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fees for publications and services — amend Sect. 113.12 (O 898-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Junk and secondhand dealers — amend Sections 676.01 & 676.06 (O 66-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Unnecessary noise. — amend Sect. 605.10 (O 899-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Utility shut-off in vacant and unsafe structures — new Section 3103.091 — substitute for
Ord. No. 1112-07 (O 1112-A-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1109

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1068
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1067
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1091
1084
1091
1080

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090

The City Record

48

June 4, 2008

Collinwood Village Development Corporation
Purchase property on E. 157th St., E. 173rd St. & Clermont (O 870-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
Communications
Record of Vote — record as yea, passed and adopted legislation on May 19, 2008 meeting
(F 905-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065
Community Development
Anti-predatory lending & foreclosure prevention assistance — CDBG — Consumer Affairs
(O 704-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cedar Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Dionne Thomas Carmichel (O 890-08) . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Good Hope Baptist Church (O 887-08) . . . . . . . .
Cityworks Program — contracts (O 760-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland State University — contracts — for data services & various reports (O 759-08) . . . . .
Agreement with FBE Inc. — Morgana East Project (O 871-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public improvement contracts — parking improvements along Detroit Ave. — Gordon Square
Arts District (O 872-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase property on E. 157th St., E. 173rd St. & Clermont — Collinwood Nottingham Villages
Development Corp. (O 870-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scovill Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Shiloh Baptist Church (O 888-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 1550 — transitional housing facility for men — amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No.
531-07 — purchase agreement — Lake Erie Motel, Inc. (O 869-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont Pointe Development Project Phase II — contract — Valleyview Associates II, L.P.,
(O 762-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd. & Holton Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland RTA
(O 889-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1093
1077
1075
1094
1094
1074

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076

Community Development Block Grant Program
Anti-predatory lending & foreclosure prevention assistance — Consumer Affairs
(O 704-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Cityworks Program — contracts — Community Development (O 760-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Condolences
Brown, Betty June (R 914-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carter Crite, Rose Mary (R 919-08) . . . . . . . .
Cinnamon, Virginia Royal (R 915-08) . . . . . .
Foster, Anthony Dewayne (R 917-08) . . . . . .
Rush, Carlton (R 920-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walker, Bertha Johnson (R 918-08). . . . . . . .
Wilson Colwell, Edna Josephine (R 916-08)

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1066
1066
1066
1066
1066
1066
1066

Congratulations
Crockrom, Charita L. (R 921-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Kidd, Roye L. (R 922-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Sheehan, Jerry (R 923-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Congress of United States
Agricultural program (food production in US) (R 900-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Consumer Affairs
Anti-predatory lending & foreclosure prevention assistance — CDBG (O 704-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Contracts
Amend Contract No. 48042 with Standard Parking Corp. to operate taxi cab stand —
Port Control Dept. (O 860-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Contract No. 66986 — Grant agreement with Westside Industrial Retention and
Expansion Network (O 696-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City wide contracts — amend Section 181.101 — Codified Ordinances (O 497-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cityworks Program — Community Development (O 760-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Municipal Court — Iron Mountain /National Underground Storage — for the storage
of records (O 855-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland State University — for data services & various reports — Community Development
(O 759-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Director of Public Utilities contract with Banc Tec, Inc. — for remittance
processors maintenance (O 549-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1110

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1068
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091

June 4, 2008

The City Record

49

Division of Water — for labor, materials & test unit process equipment and chemical feeding
equipment — Utilities Dept. (O 633-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grayton Rd., 4725 — new building construction — Blue 22 LTD. — economic development
assistance — amend Ord. No. 1979-07 (O 873-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kronos Incorp. — maintenance of attendance workforce system — Safety Dept. (O 868-08). . . . .
Kronos Incorp. — professional services necessary to maintain software & hardware support —
Utilities Dept. (O 632-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Overhead doors repair (O 729-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public improvement contracts — parking improvements along Detroit Ave., — Gordon Square
Arts District (O 872-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public improvement contracts for renovating & repairing the Division of Printing and
Reproduction facility (O 858-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Solicit proposals to management common use areas at CHIA — Port Control Dept (O 859-08) . . .
Tremont Pointe Development Project Phase II — Valleyview Associates II, L.P., (O 762-08). . . .
Unarmed uniformed security guard — various divisions of City government (O 731-08) . . . . . . . .
West Sixth Associates — Grand Arcade project — amend Ord. No. 2156-05 — To create
the Neighborhood Retail Assistance Program (O 553-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1067
1068
1094
1094

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091

County Commissioners
Grant application — for Great Lakes Towing Company (R 874-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082

Cuyahoga County
Apply & Accept grant — Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection Program (O 865-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Urban Area Security Initiative Program — grant (O 639-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092

Easements
The City Bank Investment Co. — public improvement — Rocky River Dr. & Lorain Rd.
(corner) — amend Ord. 2141-05 (O 691-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093

Economic Development Department
Amend Contract No. 66986 — Grant agreement with Westside Industrial Retention and
Expansion Network (O 696-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Creating Economic Development Grant Programs for Green Technology, Technology
Business & Downtown Business (O 646-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Downtown Digs — agreement (Ward 13 NEF)
(O 894-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grayton Rd., 4725 — new building construction — Blue 22 LTD. — contract — economic
development assistance — amend Ord. No. 1979-07 (O 873-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lease property on Crescent Avenue to St. Ignatius High School (O 896-08) . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Sixth Associates — Grand Arcade project — amend Ord. No. 2156-05 —
To create the Neighborhood Retail Assistance Program (O 553-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091

Encroachments
Encroach into right-of-way — Flats East Development, L.L.C, for Main Ave. and
Front Ave. — installing, using, & maintaining tie backs for a soil retention system —
Service Dept. (O 863-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1071
Public Right -of-Way — WXZ Development for Euclid Ave. & E. 118th St. —
Service Dept. (O 862-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1070

Fees
Fees for publications and services — amend Sect. 113.12 (O 898-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084

Finance Department
Apply & accept grant — Get on Track Program — Cleveland Municipal Court
(O 725-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Assessments and Licenses expense fund — enacting new Sect. 127.38 (O 857-08) . . . . . . . . . . .
Authorization to purchase software licenses, updates, upgrades, enhancements, training,
technical support — amend Sect. 181.102 (O 856-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Case Management and Cannabis Youth Treatment for Young Offenders Program —
grant from SAMHSA — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 727-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City of Cleveland (main telephone line) — professional service to provide
after-hour answering services (O 728-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City wide contracts — amend Section 181.101 — Codified Ordinances (O 497-08) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Municipal Court — contract — Iron Mountain /National Underground Storage —
for the storage of records (O 855-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1111

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1067
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066

The City Record

50

June 4, 2008

Computers, e-mail service, server consolidation, and e-mail remote access — Information
Technology and Services Division (O 804-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Domestic Intervention, Education & Training (D.I.E.T.) Program — grant — Cleveland
Municipal Court (O 733-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Domestic Violence Case Processing — grant — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 726-08) . . . .
Overhead doors repair — contracts (O 729-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Unarmed uniformed security guard — contracts — various divisions of City government
(O 731-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094

Grants
Amend Contract No. 66986 — Westside Industrial Retention and Expansion Network
(O 696-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bulletproof Vest Grant, 2008 — Bureau of Justice Assistance — U.S. Department of Justice,
(O 866-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, 2008 — Ohio Office of Criminal Justice —
Safety Department (O 867-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Case Management and Cannabis Youth Treatment for Young Offenders Program — SAMHSA —
Cleveland Municipal Court (O 727-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change fiscal agent regarding African American Cultural Garden — amend Ord. 15-08
(O 685-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
County Commissioner’s grant application — for Great Lakes Towing Company (R 874-08) . . . . . .
Creating Economic Development Grant Programs for Green Technology, Technology Business
& Downtown Business (O 646-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga County — Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection Program (O.865-08
Domestic Intervention, Education & Training (D.I.E.T.) Program -Cleveland Municipal Court
(O 733-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Domestic Violence Case Processing — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 726-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Get on Track Program — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 725-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PUCO Hazmat Training — Safety Dept. — CSU (O 864-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Area Security Initiative Program — Cuyahoga County (O 639-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Streetscape project — professional services — acquire for right-of-way (O 689-08) . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1094
1093
1093
1072
1092
1093

Historic Landmark District
Amend sect. 1 of Ord. 1977-07 — Franklin-West Clinton Historic District (O 460-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103

Homeless
Superior Ave., 1550 — transitional housing facility for men — amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No.
531-07 — purchase agreement — Lake Erie Motel, Inc. (O 869-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073

Housing
Superior Ave., 1550 — transitional housing facility for men — amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No.
531-07 — purchase agreement — Lake Erie Motel, Inc. (O 869-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073

Information System Services Division
Computers, e-mail service, server consolidation, and e-mail remote access (O 804-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094

Junk Yards
Junk and secondhand dealers — amend Sections 676.01 & 676.06 (O 66-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091

Land Reutilization Program
Cedar Ave., — Dionne Thomas Carmichel (O 890-08) . . . . . .
Central Ave., — Good Hope Baptist Church (O 887-08) . . . .
Scovill Ave. — Shiloh Baptist Church (O 888-08). . . . . . . . . .
Woodhill Rd. & Holton Ave., — Cleveland RTA (O 889-08) .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1077
1075
1075
1076

Lease Agreement
Property on Crescent Avenue to St. Ignatius High School — Economic Development Dept.
(O 896-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077

Leases
Extend the Solid Waste and Recycling Pilot Program for two years — amend Sects. 1 & 2 of
Ord. No. 988-07 (O 638-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Emery Playfield to the Free Methodist — Parks, Recreation and Properties (O 891-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077

1112

June 4, 2008

The City Record

51

Liquor Permits
Bolivar Rd., 727 (patio) — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 13) (R 878-08) . . . . . .
Carnegie Ave., 900 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 13) (R 879-08) . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 185th St., 731-33 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 11) (R 884-08) . . . . . . . . . . .
E.185th St., 731-33 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 11) (F 907-08) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Blvd., 3006 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 466-08
(Ward 13) (R 881-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd., 3106 — objection — new (Ward 14) (R 885-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd., 3463 — transfer of ownership / location application (Ward 14) (F 909-08) . . . .
Fulton Rd., 3548 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 14) (R 886-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd., 3548 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 14) (F 908-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Rd., 11619 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 19) (F 911-08). . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4075 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 21) (F 913-08) . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4194 — objection — transfer of liquor license (Ward 21) (R 882-08) . . . . .
Shaw Ave., 12901 — stock transfer application (Ward 10) (F 906-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spring Rd., 1503 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 15) (F 910-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 2553 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 13) (R 880-08) . . . . . . . . . .
W. 117th St., 3585 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 19) (F 912-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Park Ave., (Unit A) 9200 — objection — withdraw — new — repeal Res. 302-08
(Ward 7) (R 883-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1086
1087
1088
1066

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1087
1089
1066
1089
1066
1066
1066
1088
1066
1066
1087
1066

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Downtown Digs — agreement — Economic Development —
(Ward 13 NEF) (O 894-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (NOACA)
Waterloo Streetscape project — grants — professional services — acquire for right-of-way
(O 689-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Change fiscal agent regarding African American Cultural Garden — amend Ord. 15-08 —
grant agreement (O 685-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glenview Field — name change — Roosevelt Kirby Field (O 877-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
John F. Kennedy Recreation Center — purchase recreation equipment — (Ward 1 NEF)
(O 895-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lease portion — Emery Playfield to the Free Methodist (O 891-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077

Permits
Asthma Walk (Annual) — May 31, 2008 — American Lung Association (O 903-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Morgana Run — May 31, 2008 — Hermes Sports & Events (O 902-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Walkathon for Human Rights, (2nd Annual) — July 19, 2008 — The Empowerment Center
of Greater Cleveland (O 904-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Personnel Department
Compensation for various classifications — amend Sect. 13 of Ord. No. 289-06 (O 876-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Compensation for various classifications — IBEW, Local 39 — amend Sect. 24 Ord. No. 289-06
(O 892-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Port Control Department
Amend Contract No. 48042 with Standard Parking Corp. to operate taxi cab stand
(O 860-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sects. 573.02, 573.04, 573.05, 573.10 & 573.99 — bulkhead repair notice (O 861-08) . . . . . . . .
Community Entertainment Districts — CHIA — amend Sect. 699A.011 (O 897-08). . . . . . . . . . . . .
Solicit proposals to management common use areas at CHIA — contracts — Port Control Dept
(O 859-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1068
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1068
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1078
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1068

Predatory Lending
Anti-predatory lending & foreclosure prevention assistance — CDBG — Consumer Affairs
(O 704-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Professional Services
City of Cleveland (main telephone line) — To provide after-hour answering services
(O 728-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Computers, e-mail service, server consolidation, and e-mail remote access — Information
Technology and Services Division (O 804-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
Contracts with Kronos Incorp.- maintenance of attendance workforce system — Safety Dept.
(O 868-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073

1113

The City Record

52

June 4, 2008

Create a Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract & Protection Plan
Program — Utilities Dept. (O 500-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Iron Mountain Information Management Inc., — payment for underground storage (O 893-08). . .
Kronos Incorp. — contract — professional services necessary to maintain software & hardware
support — Utilities Dept. (O 632-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public improvement contracts for renovating & repairing the Division of Printing and
Reproduction facility (O 858-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Streetscape project — grants — acquire for right-of-way (O 689-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1067
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093

Public Hearings (Notices)
Amend sect. 1 of Ord. 1977-07 — Franklin-West Clinton Historic District (O 460-08) . . . . . . .
Change the Use District — N.E. corner of E.55th St. & Superior Ave. — Residence Office
District (O 653-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use District — E. 55th St. & Saint Clair Ave., (southeast corner) — Residence
Office District (O 703-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establishing a Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — Detroit Ave., & Lake Ave.
(between W. 48th St. & W. 77th St.) (O 560-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establishing the Lorain Variety Historic District — (Ward 19) (O 567-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Expanding Clark Metro Business Revitalization District — Clark Ave., & Fulton Rd.
& Walworth Ave. (O 559-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Rd. south (between W. 80th St. & W. 73rd St.) — Change the Use Districts —
Local Retail Business District (O 1268-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marquette St. & St. Clair Ave. (northwest corner) — change the zoning — Local Retail
Business (O 2023-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave. (between E. 167th St & City boundary) — Change the Use Districts — RA-2
Townhouse & Residence Industry (O 1266-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103

Public Improvements
Easement with The City Bank Investment Co. — Rocky River Dr. & Lorain Rd. (corner) —
amend Ord. 2141-05 (O 691-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts — parking improvements along Detroit Ave., — Gordon Square Arts District
(O 872-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts for renovating & repairing the Division of Printing and Reproduction facility
(O 858-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation of Belvoir Boulevard (Euclid Ave. & South Euclid) — amend Ord.
2332-03 (O 690-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1067
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093

Public Right-of-Way
Encroachment — WXZ Development for Euclid Ave. & E. 118th St. — Service Dept.
(O 862-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1070
Public Utilities Commission (PUCO)
Apply & Accept grant PUCO Hazmat Training — Safety Dept. — CSU (O 864-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Purchases and Supplies Division
John F. Kennedy Recreation Center — purchase recreation equipment — (Ward 1 NEF)
(O 895-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Overhead doors repair — contracts (O 729-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Purchase property on E. 157th St., E. 173rd St. & Clermont — Collinwood Nottingham Villages
Development Corp. (O 870-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 1550 — transitional housing facility for men — amend Sect. 8 of Ord. No.
531-07 — purchase agreement — Lake Erie Motel, Inc. (O 869-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073

Recognition
Abdur-Rashid , Imam Al-Hajj Talib (R 925-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ahmad, Dr. Muhammad (R 926-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cornerstone of Hope (R 929-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Freeman, Don (R 927-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Krulak, Allan C. (R 931-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Memorial Day Association of Greater Cleveland Cornerstone of Hope (R 928-08) .
Ratner, Albert B. (R 930-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ratner, Charles A. (R 932-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Razzaq, Abdullah H. (R 924-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1066
1066
1066
1066
1066
1066
1066
1066
1066

Regional Transit Authority
Woodhill Rd. & Holton Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland RTA
(O 889-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076

1114

June 4, 2008

The City Record

53

Resolution of Support
County Commissioner’s grant application — for Great Lakes Towing Company (R 874-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Agricultural program (food production in US) — U.S. Congress (R 900-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal Health Act — S.B. 2844 (R 901-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090

Right-of-Way
Encroach — Flats East Development, L.L.C, for Main Ave. and Front Ave. — installing, using,
& maintaining tie backs for a soil retention system — Service Dept. (O 863-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1071
Waterloo Streetscape project — grants — professional services — acquire for right-of-way
(O 689-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093

Safety Department
Apply & Accept grant — Cuyahoga County — Law Enforcement Terrorism Protection
Program (O 865-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apply & Accept grant PUCO Hazmat Training — CSU (O 864-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bulletproof Vest Grant, 2008 — Bureau of Justice Assistance — Grants — U.S. Department
of Justice, (O 866-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, 2008 — Grants — Ohio Office of Criminal
Justice (O 867-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts with Kronos Incorp. — maintenance of attendance workforce system — Safety Dept.
(O 868-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Unnecessary noise. — amend Sect. 605.10 (O 899-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Area Security Initiative Program — grant — Cuyahoga County (O 639-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1073
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1080
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092

Salaries
Compensation for various classifications — amend Sect. 13 of Ord. No. 289-06 (O 876-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082
Compensation for various classifications — IBEW, Local 39 — amend Sect. 24 Ord. No. 289-06
(O 892-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083

Senate Bills
Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal Health Act — S.B. 2844 (R 901-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090

Service Department
Asthma Walk (Annual) — May 31, 2008 — permit — American Lung Association
(O 903-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Easement with The City Bank Investment Co. — public improvement — Rocky River Dr. & Lorain
Rd. (corner) — amend Ord. 2141-05 (O 691-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Encroach into right-of-way — Flats East Development, L.L.C, for Main Ave. and Front Ave. —
installing, using, & maintaining tie backs for a soil retention system
(O 863-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Encroachment — Public Right -of-Way — WXZ Development for Euclid Ave. & E. 118th St.
(O 862-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Extend the Solid Waste and Recycling Pilot Program for two years — amend Sects. 1 & 2 of
Ord. No. 988-07 (O 638-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glenview Field — name change — Roosevelt Kirby Field (O 877-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. — between West 150th Street and Fairview Hospital — electric line underground —
public improvement — Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. — agreement — Amend Ord.
985-06 (O 634-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgana Run — permit — May 31, 2008 — Hermes Sports & Events (O 902-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public improvement contracts — parking improvements along Detroit Ave., — Gordon Square
Arts District (O 872-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation of Belvoir Boulevard (Euclid Ave. & South Euclid) — amend Ord.
2332-03 (O 690-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walkathon for Human Rights, (2nd Annual) — July 19, 2008 — permit — The Empowerment Center
of Greater Cleveland (O 904-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Streetscape project — grants — professional services — acquire for right-of-way
(O 689-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 1086
. . . . . . . . . 1093

. . . . . . . . . 1071
. . . . . . . . . 1070
. . . . . . . . . 1092
. . . . . . . . . 1075

. . . . . . . . . 1092
. . . . . . . . . 1086
. . . . . . . . . 1074
. . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . 1086
. . . . . . . . . 1093

State of Ohio
Waterloo Streetscape project — grants — professional services — acquire for right-of-way
(O 689-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093

1115

The City Record

54

June 4, 2008

Utilities Department
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — Street lighting Rate (O 682-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Public Power energy adjustment charge — amend 523.21 — amend Ord. 2068-05
(O 681-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Create a Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract & Protection Plan
Program — Professional Services (O 500-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Director of Public Utilities contract with Banc Tec, Inc. — for remittance
processors maintenance (O 549-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Division of Water — contract — for labor, materials & test unit process equipment
and chemical feeding equipment (O 633-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enacting new Sect. 535.23 — amend Sect. 535.06 Codified Ordinances — payment plans —
Water Division (O 347-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kronos Incorp. — contract — professional services necessary to maintain software & hardware
support (O 632-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091

Vacant Structures
Utility shut-off in vacant and unsafe structures — new Section 3103.091 — substitute for
Ord. No. 1112-07 (O 1112-A-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Ward 01
Crockrom, Charita L. — congratulation (R 921-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
John F. Kennedy Recreation Center — purchase recreation equipment — (Ward 1 NEF)
(O 895-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kidd, Roye L. — congratulation (R 922-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave. (between E. 167th St & City boundary) — Change the Use Districts — RA-2
Townhouse & Residence Industry (O 1266-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103

Ward 02
Carter Crite, Rose Mary — condolence (R 919-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Ward 03
Abdur-Rashid , Imam Al-Hajj Talib — recognition
Ahmad, Dr. Muhammad — recognition (R 926-08) .
Freeman, Don — recognition (R 927-08). . . . . . . . . .
Razzaq, Abdullah H. — recognition (R 924-08) . . . .

(R 925-08).
..........
..........
..........

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1066
1066
1066
1066

Ward 04
Foster, Anthony Dewayne — condolence (R 917-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Woodhill Rd. & Holton Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Cleveland RTA (O 889-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1076
Ward 05
Brown, Betty June — condolence (R 914-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Central Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Good Hope Baptist Church (O 887-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Scovill Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Shiloh Baptist Church (O 888-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Ward 06
Cedar Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Dionne Thomas Carmichel (O 890-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077
Ward 07
Wade Park Ave., (Unit A) 9200 — objection — withdraw — new — repeal Res. 302-08 —
liquor permit (R 883-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
Ward 08
Change fiscal agent regarding African American Cultural Garden — amend Ord. 15-08 —
grant agreement (O 685-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Glenview Field — name change — Roosevelt Kirby Field (O 877-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1075
Walker, Bertha Johnson — condolence (R 918-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Ward 09
Agricultural program (food production in US) — U.S. Congress (R 900-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cinnamon, Virginia Royal — condolence (R 915-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Encroachment — Public Right -of-Way — WXZ Development for Euclid Ave. & E. 118th St. —
Service Dept. (O 862-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wilson Colwell, Edna Josephine — condolence (R 916-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1116

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1070
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066

June 4, 2008

The City Record

55

Ward 10
Rehabilitation of Belvoir Boulevard (Euclid Ave. & South Euclid) — amend Ord.
2332-03 (O 690-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093
Shaw Ave., 12901 — stock transfer application — liquor permit (F 906-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Ward 11
Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal Health Act — S.B. 2844 (R 901-08) . . . . . . .
E. 185th St., 731-33 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 884-08) . . . . . . .
E.185th St., 731-33 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 907-08) . . . . . . . .
Memorial Day Association of Greater Cleveland Cornerstone of Hope — recognition
(R 928-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Streetscape project — grants — professional services — acquire for right-of-way
(O 689-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1088
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1093

Ward 12
Asthma Walk (Annual) — May 31, 2008 — permit — American Lung Association
(O 903-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Morgana Run — permit — May 31, 2008 — Hermes Sports & Events (O 902-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
Ward 13
Bolivar Rd., 727 (patio) — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 878-08) . . . . .
Carnegie Ave., 900 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 879-08) . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use District — N.E. corner of E.55th St. & Superior Ave. — Residence Office
District (O 653-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use District — E. 55th St. & Saint Clair Ave., (southeast corner) — Residence
Office District (O 703-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Downtown Cleveland Alliance — Downtown Digs — agreement — Economic Development —
(Ward 13 NEF) (O 894-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Franklin Blvd., 3006 — withdraw objection to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 466-08 —
liquor permit (R 881-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Krulak, Allan C. — recognition (R 931-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marquette St. & St. Clair Ave. (northwest corner) — change the zoning — Local Retail
Business (O 2023-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ratner, Albert B. — recognition (R 930-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ratner, Charles A. — recognition (R 932-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sheehan, Jerry — congratulation (R 923-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave., 2553 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 880-08). . . . . . . . . .
Tremont Pointe Development Project Phase II — contract — Valleyview Associates II, L.P.,
(O 762-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walkathon for Human Rights, (2nd Annual) — July 19, 2008 — permit — The Empowerment
Center of Greater Cleveland (O 904-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Sixth Associates — Grand Arcade project — amend Ord. No. 2156-05 — To create
the Neighborhood Retail Assistance Program (O 553-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1084
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1087
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1103
1066
1066
1066
1087

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1094
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1086
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091

Ward 14
Expanding Clark Metro Business Revitalization District — Clark Ave., & Fulton Rd.
& Walworth Ave. (O 559-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd., 3106 — objection — new — liquor permit (R 885-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd., 3463 — transfer of ownership / location application — liquor permit
(F 909-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd., 3548 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (R 886-08) . . . . . . .
Fulton Rd., 3548 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 908-08). . . . . . . .
Record of Vote — record as yea, passed and adopted legislation on May 19, 2008 meeting
(F 905-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1089
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1065

Ward 15
Spring Rd., 1503 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 910-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Ward 17
Amend sect. 1 of Ord. 1977-07 — Franklin-West Clinton Historic District (O 460-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal Health Act — S.B. 2844 (R 901-08) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Ave., (west of W. 65th St.) — change Use Districts — City Planning Commission
(O 875-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establishing a Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — Detroit Ave., & Lake Ave.
(between W. 48th St. & W. 77th St.) (O 560-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lease property on Crescent Avenue to St. Ignatius High School — Economic Development Dept.
(O 896-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1117

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1077

The City Record

56

June 4, 2008

Lorain Rd. south (between W. 80th St. & W. 73rd St.) — Change the Use Districts — Local
Retail Business District (O 1268-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
Public improvement contracts — parking improvements along Detroit Ave. — Gordon Square
Arts District (O 872-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Rush, Carlton — condolence (R 920-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Ward 18
Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal Health Act — S.B. 2844
(R 901-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1090
Ward 19
Establishing the Lorain Variety Historic District (O 567-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
Lorain Rd., 11619 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit
(F 911-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
W. 117th St., 3585 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit
(F 912-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Ward 20
Cornerstone of Hope — recognition (R 929-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066
Grayton Rd., 4725 — new building construction — Blue 22 LTD. — contract — economic
development assistance — amend Ord. No. 1979-07 (O 873-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1074
Ward 21
Community Entertainment Districts — CHIA — amend Sect. 699A.011 (O 897-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Easement with The City Bank Investment Co. — public improvement — Rocky River Dr. & Lorain
Rd. (corner) — amend Ord. 2141-05 (O 691-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave. — between West 150th Street and Fairview Hospital — electric line underground —
public improvement — Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. — agreement — Amend Ord.
985-06 (O 634-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4075 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (F 913-08) . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4194- objection — transfer of liquor license — liquor permit (Ward 21)
(R 882-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1078
. . . . . . . . . . . 1093

. . . . . . . . . . . 1092
. . . . . . . . . . . 1066
. . . . . . . . . . . 1088

Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Extend the Solid Waste and Recycling Pilot Program for two years — amend Sects. 1 & 2 of
Ord. No. 988-07 (O 638-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Water Division
Create a Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract & Protection Plan
Program — Professional Services — Utilities Dept. (O 500-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Division of Water — contract — for labor, materials & test unit process equipment
and chemical feeding equipment — Utilities Dept. (O 633-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092
Enacting new Sect. 535.23 — amend Sect. 535.06 Codified Ordinances — payment plans —
Utilities Department (O 347-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Water Pollution Control Division
Create a Water and Sewer Service Line Residential Service Contract & Protection Plan
Program — Professional Services — Utilities Dept. (O 500-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1091
Zoning
Change the Use District — N.E. corner of E.55th St. & Superior Ave. — Residence Office
District (O 653-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use District — E. 55th St. & Saint Clair Ave., (southeast corner) — Residence
Office District (O 703-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Denison Ave., (west of W. 65th St.) — change Use Districts — City Planning Commission
(Ward 17) (O 875-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establishing a Pedestrian Retail Overlay (PRO) District — Detroit Ave., & Lake Ave.
(between W. 48th St. & W. 77th St.) (O 560-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Establishing the Lorain Variety Historic District — (Ward 19) (O 567-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Expanding Clark Metro Business Revitalization District — Clark Ave., & Fulton Rd.
& Walworth Ave. (O 559-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Rd. south (between W. 80th St. & W. 73rd St.) — Change the Use Districts — Local
Retail Business District (O 1268-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marquette St. & St. Clair Ave. (northwest corner) — change the zoning — Local Retail
Business (O 2023-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Miles Ave. (between E. 167th St & City boundary) — Change the Use Districts — RA-2
Townhouse & Residence Industry (O 1266-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1118

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1081
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1103

