The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

February the Thirteenth, Two Thousand and Eight

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
14
14
17
17
18
19
19
20
20
38
38

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Nina Turner..................................................16204 Sunny Glen Avenue
44128
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – ____________, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Angel Guzman, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley; Councilman Nina Turner.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue

POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

AUDIT COMMITTEE – Robert Rawson, Chairman; Yvette Ittu, Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis,
Don Neebes, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.

CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Laura M. Bala, Chair; Jennifer
Coleman, Vice Chair; Robert N. Brown, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Thomas
Coffey, Robert Jackimowicz; Ari Maron, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John
Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert Keiser, Secretary.

CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
14B
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12A
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles Patton, Jr.
12B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Michael John Ryan
12C
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak –
Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2008

Vol. 95

No. 4914

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2008
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly by the City Clerk,

10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Keane,
Vice
Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Mitchell, Turner, Westbrook.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Coats,
Cummins,
Kelley,
Mitchell,
Polensek,
Santiago,
Turner.

Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at

www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

City Clerk, Clerk of Council

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Keane,
Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Keane,
Lewis, Reed, Zone.

216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Turner.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Brancatelli, Chair;
Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley, Mitchell, Reed, Santiago, Westbrook.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek,
Reed,
Santiago,
White.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Keane, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Lewis, Pierce
Scott, Reed, White.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Coats,
Conwell, Pierce Scott, Turner, Westbrook, White, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic
Development
Committee:
Pierce Scott, Chair; Brancatelli,
Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Cimperman,
Cummins, Coats, Lewis, Westbrook.
Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson,
Mitchell.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee:
Westbrook,
Chair;
Kelley,
Mitchell,
Pierce
Scott,
Santiago,
Sweeney, White.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, February 11, 2008
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson,
Keane, Kelley, Mitchell, Polensek,
Reed, Santiago, Pierce Scott, Sweeney, Turner, Westbrook, White and
Zone.
Also present were Mayor Jackson;
Ken Silliman, Chief of Staff; Darnell
Brown,
Chief
Operation
Officer;
Valarie J. McCall, Chief of Government Affairs; Monyka S. Price, Chief
of Education; Maureen Harper, Chief
of Communications; Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary; Debra Linn Talley, Director of Office of Equal
Opportunity; and Directors Triozzi,
Smith, Carroll, Wasik, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Rybka, Nichols, Hutchinson,
Griffin, and Teresa Stevenson, Legislative Liaison.

253

Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
a prayer was offered by Elder Janie
Whitehead of Progressive Evangelistic Temple, located at 11307 Kinsman Avenue in Ward 3. Pledge of
Allegiance.
MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Brancatelli, the reading of the minutes of the last meeting were dispensed with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member
Coats.
COMMUNICATIONS
File No. 250-08.
From Clear Channel Outdoor, Inc.
— Semi annual notification of contact information
for all billboards
owned and operated. Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 251-08—Tanya Allmond.
Res. No. 252-08 — Daisy Joyce
Teague.
Res. No. 253-08 — Homer Walter
Sheffield.
Res. No. 254-08—Thomas Andrew
Dunavant.
Res. No. 255-08—Sara P. Lovejoy.
Res. No. 256-08 — Joseph Mac
Beltcher.
Res. No. 257-08—Lawrence Brown,
Jr.
Res. No. 258-08 — Octavia Walker
Givhan.
Res. No. 259-08—Mary Anna.
Res. No. 260-08—Council Member
Michael Lynch.
Res. No. 261-08—Council Member
Connie Karr.
Res. No. 262-08—Melvin Daniels.
Res. No. 263-08—Mandrell Means.
Res. No. 264-08—Mrs. Florine Moss.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 265-08—Brian Becker.
Res. No. 266-08—Louie Vega.
RECOGNITION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 267-08—Ira Newble.

The City Record

4
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 238-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more requirement contracts without competitive bidding
with Dominion East Ohio for the
purchase of natural gas transportation services for the City’s natural
gas accounts; and authorizing the
purchase by one or more requirement contracts of natural gas, for
the various natural gas accounts of
City government, for a period of one
year with a one-year option to
renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council has
determined that natural gas transportation services are non-competitive and cannot be secured from any
source other than Dominion East
Ohio. Therefore, the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts with Dominion East Ohio
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
for the requirements for a period of
one year, with one (1) option exercisable by the Director of Finance,
to renew for an additional one-year
term, for natural gas transportation
services, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis (per Mcf), for
the various divisions of City government.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written requirement contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year, with one (1)
option exercisable by the Director of
Finance, to renew for an additional
one-year term, for the purchase of
natural gas to be transported by
Dominion East Ohio in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding term, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies on a unit basis (per
Mcf) for the various divisions of
City government. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all City natural gas accounts as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of City
natural gas accounts as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the term
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract or contracts shall be certified and charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
in
accordance with law. (RL 121216)
Section 4. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance
may be made through cooperative
agreements using state procedures.
The Director of Finance may sign
all documents with the State of
Ohio or any of its political subdivisions that are necessary to make
the purchases, and may enter into

one or more contracts with the vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 239-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
contracts of one digital postage
meter, for the Division of Taxation,
Department of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to make one
or more written contracts under the
Charter and the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for each or
all of the following items: one (1)
digital postage meter, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, for a gross
price, for the Division of Taxation,
Department of Finance.
Section 2. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director Finance of may sign all
documents with the State of Ohio or
any of its political subdivisions that
are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into contract or
contracts with the vendors selected
through that cooperative process.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund No. 81 SF 001,
Request No. 174562.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 240-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale by the
City of airport system revenue refunding bonds to refund outstanding
airport system revenue bonds; authorizing hedge agreements, supplemental indentures, and other agreements related to airport system revenue bonds; and authorizing and
approving related matters.
Whereas, under authority of the
Constitution of the State of Ohio, the
Charter of the City, Ordinance No.
1773-A-76, passed by the Council of
the City on August 16, 1976 and the
Trust Indenture dated as of November 1, 1976 (together with Ordinance
No. 1773-A-76, the “Original Inden-

254

February 13, 2008
ture”) between the City and The
Bank of New York Trust Company,
N.A.,
as
successor
trustee
(the
“Trustee”), the City issued various
series of Revenue Bonds for the
Airport System, of which $909,100,000
aggregate principal amount is currently outstanding; and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the issuance by
the City of Airport System Revenue
Refunding Bonds (“Refunding Bonds”)
under the Original Indenture, as
supplemented and amended, and to
authorize
hedging
arrangements
with respect to Airport System Revenue Bonds to obtain debt service
savings or to minimize risks of
increased interest expense on Airport System Revenue Bonds bearing
interest at variable rates, as provided in this Ordinance; and
Whereas, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that authorizing the
Refunding Bonds to refund Outstanding Revenue Bonds is necessary to enable the Airport System to
take advantage of favorable market
conditions on a timely basis to
obtain debt service savings; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions.
In addition to the words and
terms defined in the Original Indenture, as amended and supplemented
by the First through Tenth Supplemental Indentures, and as to be further amended and supplemented as
provided in this Ordinance, the following words and terms shall have
the following meanings, unless the
context or use indicates a contrary
meaning or intention.
“Bond Purchase Agreement” means,
with
respect
to
the
Refunding
Bonds, one or more Bond Purchase
Agreements between the City and
the Original Purchasers authorized
in Section 5 of this Ordinance.
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system, as
applicable, under which (a) the
ownership of beneficial interests in
Revenue Bonds and Bond service
charges may be transferred only
through a book entry, and (b) physical Revenue Bond certificates in
fully registered form are registered
only in the name of a Depository or
its nominee as registered owner,
with the physical Bond certificates
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry system
is maintained by and is the responsibility of the Depository and not
the City or the Trustee. The book
entry is the record that identifies,
and records the transfer of the
interest of, the owners of beneficial
(book entry) interests in the Revenue Bonds.
“Certificate of Award” means one
or more certificates delivered by the
Director of Finance pursuant to Section 5 of this Ordinance providing
for the final terms of the Refunding
Bonds of any series consistent with
the requirements of the Indenture
and this Ordinance.
“Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
including, when appropriate, the
statutory predecessor of the Code
and all applicable Treasury regulations.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of

February 13, 2008
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity device used to
enhance the security or liquidity of
any Revenue Bonds or any Hedge
Agreements.
“Depository” shall mean any securities depository that is a clearing
agency under federal law operating
and maintaining, with its participants or otherwise, a book entry
system to record beneficial ownership of Revenue Bonds or Bond service charges, and to effect transfers
of Revenue Bonds, in book entry
form, and includes and means initially The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New York, New York.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance
of the City, from time to time, in
connection with the Revenue Bonds
or any Hedge Agreement.
“Hedge Agreement” has the meaning given in Section 3 of this Ordinance.
“Indenture” means the Original
Indenture as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental
Trust Indenture dated as of April 1,
1990, the Second Supplemental Trust
Indenture dated as of August 1,
1994, the Third Supplemental Trust
Indenture dated as of November 1,
1997, the Fourth Supplemental Trust
Indenture dated as of February 1,
2001, the Fifth Supplemental Trust
Indenture dated as of October 15,
2003, the Sixth Supplemental Trust
Indenture dated as of January 1,
2006,
the
Seventh
Supplemental
Trust Indenture dated October 17,
2006, the Eighth Supplemental Trust
Indenture dated as of November 1,
2006, the Ninth Supplemental Trust
Indenture dated as of October 1, 2007
and the Tenth Supplemental Trust
Indenture dated as of October 1,
2007, as the same may be further
amended and supplemented from
time to time.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to each series of Refunding
Bonds, the financial institutions
identified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award for that series.
“Outstanding Revenue Bonds” as
used in this Ordinance, means Revenue Bonds outstanding under the
Indenture. On the date of introduction of this Ordinance, the Outstanding Revenue Bonds (and the
respective principal amounts then
currently outstanding) consisted of
the following series of Airport System Revenue Bonds: Series 1997B
($955,000), Series 1997D ($36,185,000),
Series 1997E ($15,345,000), Series
2000A ($249,445,000), Series 2000B
($47,575,000), Series 2000C ($149,000,000),
Series 2003A ($18,700,000), Series
2003B
($51,125,000),
Series
2003C
($62,675,000), Series 2006A ($107,750,000),
Series 2006B ($10,915,000), Series
2007-A-1 ($74,075,000), Series 2007A-2
($74,100,000),
and
Series
2007B
($11,255,000).
“Refunded Bonds” means those
Outstanding Revenue Bonds identified in a Certificate of Award to be
refunded from proceeds of Refunding Bonds.
“Refunding Bonds” means the Airport System Revenue Refunding
Bonds authorized by this Ordinance
to be issued as Additional Revenue
Bonds under the Indenture for the
purpose of refunding one or more
series
of
Outstanding
Revenue
Bonds,
or
designated
maturities
thereof.

The City Record
“Remarketing Agent” means a
financial institution performing the
duties of a remarketing agent under
a Supplemental Indenture for variable rate Revenue Bonds.
“Revenue Bonds” means Outstanding Revenue Bonds and any Additional Revenue Bonds issued under
the Indenture.
“Supplemental Indenture” means
each Supplemental Trust Indenture
delivered to supplement and amend
the Indenture, to further provide for
the terms and security of one or
more series of Revenue Bonds.
“Tax-Exempt Bonds” means Revenue Bonds bearing interest excluded from gross income for federal
income tax purposes.
For purposes of comparing this
Ordinance with the Series 1976 Ordinance, the following terms shall
have the same meaning: “City” and
“Issuer,” “Council” and “Governing
Body,” “Director of Finance” and
“Fiscal Officer,” and “Ordinance”
and “Bond Legislation.”
Section 2.
Authorization of the
Refunding Bonds.
This Council finds and determines
it is necessary and proper and in the
best interest of the City to authorize
the issuance of Refunding Bonds for
the purpose of refunding (i) one or
more series of the Outstanding Revenue Bonds, or designated portions
thereof, to obtain aggregate net present value debt service savings of
not less than three percent (3%), or
(ii) one or more series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds, or designated
portions thereof, that are short-term
or variable-rate obligations and that
the Director of Finance has determined, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, are subjecting the City to undesirably high
rates of interest or undesirable fluctuations in rates of interest that can
economically be avoided or mitigated through refunding. The Refunding Bonds may be issued in one or
more separate series, each bearing
a distinctive designation, provided
that the Refunding Bonds of each
series satisfy the requirements of
this Ordinance and the Indenture.
The principal amount of each series
of Refunding Bonds is to be the
amount set forth in the Certificate
of Award authorized in Section 5
and shall be the amount determined
by the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to be necessary (i) to
refund the Refunded Bonds, (ii) to
fund any deposit to the Bond Service Reserve Fund required under
the Indenture, (iv) to pay costs of
any Credit Support Instruments, (v)
to pay identified amounts owed
under Hedge Agreements, and (vi)
to pay costs of issuing the Refunding
Bonds
and
refunding
the
Refunded Bonds. The proceeds from
the sale of each series of Refunding
Bonds shall be allocated, deposited
and applied as provided in Section 6
of this Ordinance.
Separate
series
of
Refunding
Bonds may be issued at the same or
different
times.
The
Refunding
Bonds of each series shall be designated as provided in the applicable Certificate of Award. A separate
Certificate of Award and a separate
Supplemental
Indenture
may
be
delivered for each series. Costs of
issuance of the Refunding Bonds
and any required deposit to the
Bond Service Reserve Fund attributable to the Refunding Bonds shall,
in each case, be included in the
costs funded from the proceeds of

255

5
the
Refunding
Bonds.
The
Refunding Bonds shall constitute Revenue Bonds for all purposes of the
Indenture.
This Council finds and determines
that the issuance of the Refunding
Bonds for the purpose provided in
this Ordinance serves a proper, public, municipal purpose by reducing
the costs of air travel facilities serving the people of the City of Cleveland, thereby increasing and promoting commerce by providing necessary transportation for individuals
and
commercial
enterprises
purchasing and selling services and
products in northeastern Ohio, and
creating and preserving jobs and
employment opportunities in the
City and improving the economic
welfare of the City.
Section 3. Authorization of Hedging Arrangements.
This Council finds that by engaging
in
interest
rate
hedging
arrangements with respect to Revenue Bonds the City may reduce its
cost of borrowing by optimizing the
relative amounts of fixed and variable rate obligations, or minimizing
the risk of variations in its debt service costs, or obtaining savings by
confirming rates of interest on Revenue Bonds in advance of their
issuance. To permit the City to have
the flexibility to undertake interest
rate swap, swaption, rate cap, rate
collar and other hedging transactions, from time to time, and to
establish the procedures for approving those transactions, this Council
authorizes the signing and delivery
of one or more agreements (each, a
“Hedge Agreement”) and any related agreements necessary for the
consummation of the transactions
contemplated by each Hedge Agreement. The authorizations in this Section 3 are supplemental to and not
in derogation of any authority provided by any other ordinance of this
Council
concerning
hedging
arrangements.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is to the financial advantage of the City and in the City’s
best
interests
that
a
hedging
arrangement be undertaken by the
City with respect to any Revenue
Bonds issued or to be issued under
the
Indenture,
the
Director
of
Finance may authorize one or more
interest rate hedge transactions in
accordance
with
the
applicable
Hedge Agreement; provided that (a)
the counterparty shall be rated at
the time of signing the Hedge
Agreement not lower than A+ or A1
by at least one rating agency or its
obligations under the Hedge Agreement shall be guaranteed or insured
by an entity rated at the time of
signing the Hedge Agreement not
lower than A+ or A1 by at least one
rating agency, and (b) the term of
each hedge transaction shall not
exceed the final maturity of the
Revenue Bonds to which the hedge
relates.
The Director of Finance shall
negotiate the terms of each Hedge
Agreement with a counterparty satisfying the credit criteria in this
Ordinance. The City shall receive a
written opinion of a Financial Advisor that the payments made or to be
made by the counterparty to the
City, or by the City to the counterparty, shall be fair value for the
Hedge Agreement, given the credit
of the counterparty and the terms
and conditions of the Hedge Agree-

6
ment. The Director of Finance shall
determine the terms and conditions
of the Hedge Agreement, including
without limitation, the time or times
and procedures for the exercise by
the counterparty or the City, as the
case may be, of its option under the
Hedge
Agreement,
whether
the
obligations of the City under the
Hedge Agreement shall be secured
by a Credit Support Instrument, and
the rates to be paid by the counterparty to the City and by the City to
the counterparty under the Hedge
Agreement in the event of the exercise of the option. The approval of
each interest rate hedge transaction
by the Director of Finance shall be
conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery of the applicable
Hedge Agreement by the Director of
Finance.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from
the
Airport
Revenues
as
defined in the Indenture and may be
payable also from other funds permitted by law to be used for the purpose, as identified by the Director of
Finance in the Hedge Agreement.
Those payments may be secured by
a pledge of Airport Revenues, to the
extent permitted by the Indenture,
all as determined by the Director of
Finance and set forth in the Hedge
Agreement. The obligation of the
City to make payments under any
Hedge Agreement does not and
shall not represent or constitute a
general obligation, debt, bonded
indebtedness or a pledge of the faith
and credit of the City or the State
of Ohio. Nothing gives any party to
any Hedge Agreement the right to
have excises, ad valorem or other
taxes levied by the City or the State
of Ohio for the payment of any
amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.
Section 4.
Terms of Refunding
Bonds.
The Refunding Bonds shall contain the terms provided in or determined pursuant to, the Indenture,
this Ordinance, the applicable Certificate of Award and the applicable
Supplemental Indenture. Each series
of Refunding Bonds may be secured
by a separate Supplemental Indenture,
or
a
single
Supplemental
Indenture may secure more than one
series of Refunding Bonds.
(a) General. In the event that the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, determines that the City’s best
interests will be served by causing
a series of Refunding Bonds to be
obligations bearing interest at variable interest rates, then the Director of Finance is authorized to so
specify in the Certificate of Award
for that series. If the Director of
Finance so determines, then the
method and procedure by which the
variable rate of interest to be borne
by the Refunding Bonds of that
series shall be determined as provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture, whether by auction,
by reference to a market index, by
a remarketing agent or otherwise,
provided that no series of variable
rate Refunding Bonds shall bear
interest at a rate in excess of twenty-five
percent
(25%)
per
year
(including any Refunding Bonds
held by a provider of a Credit Support Instrument). The Director of
Finance may determine that the
terms of a variable rate series of
Refunding Bonds may or may not
permit the holders to tender their
variable rate Refunding Bonds for

The City Record
purchase by the City. If the Director of Finance designates any series
of Refunding Bonds as variable rate
Refunding Bonds, and if the Holders of that series of Refunding
Bonds are to be entitled to tender
those Refunding Bonds for purchase, then the Director of Finance
shall also designate for those variable rate Refunding Bonds (and
may designate others, from time to
time, in substitution therefor), the
tender agent or agents and the
remarketing agent or agents, which
designations shall be based on the
determination of the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the parties so designated possess
the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required
of them and that the terms on which
the designated parties have agreed
to provide such services are fair and
commercially reasonable. The Director of Finance is authorized to enter
into agreements in connection with
the
delivery
of
the
Refunding
Bonds, and from time to time thereafter so long as the Refunding
Bonds are outstanding, with providers of Credit Support Instruments, tender agents (which may be
the Trustee), remarketing agents
(which may be any of the Original
Purchasers) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of
determining the variable interest
rates, permitting holders the right
of tender and providing for payment
of the purchase price of, or debt service on, the variable rate Refunding
Bonds. In the event the variable rate
Refunding Bonds are issued as auction rate obligations, the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements, from time to time, with
auction agents and others, or to
cause the Trustee to enter into those
agreements, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor that
the parties so designated possess
the requisite resources and experience to provide the services required
of them and that the terms on which
the designated parties have agreed
to provide such services are fair and
commercially reasonable.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
any series of Refunding Bonds, and
regardless of whether that series of
Refunding Bonds bears interest at
variable or fixed rates, is authorized
to contract for a Credit Support
Instrument, and to pay the costs of
it from proceeds of the Refunding
Bonds, if the Director determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the Credit
Support Instrument will result in a
savings in the cost of the financing
to the City.
(b) Form; Exchange and Transfer.
All Refunding Bonds shall be issued
in
fully
registered
form.
The
Refunding Bonds initially shall be
delivered only in book-entry form,
shall be registered in the name of
the Depository or its nominee, as
registered owner, and immobilized
in the custody of the Depository,
and shall not be transferable or
exchangeable (except for transfer to
another Depository or its nominee)
without further action by the City
pursuant to the provisions of the
Supplemental
Indenture.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Original Indenture, no
Refunding
Bonds
shall
be
exchanged for or transferable into a

256

February 13, 2008
coupon Revenue Bond or Bonds
unless and until the Indenture shall
have been amended in accordance
with the terms thereof to permit
such exchanges or transfers. To the
extent that the Original Indenture
(particularly, but without limitation,
Section 2.05) permits fully registered Revenue Bonds to be exchanged for or transferred into
coupon Revenue Bonds or Revenue
Bonds payable to bearer, then the
Original Indenture is amended to
prohibit such exchanges or transfers
for the Refunding Bonds unless and
until the Indenture shall have been
further amended to permit such
exchanges or transfers.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Refunding Bonds of any
series for use in a book entry system, the Director of Finance and the
Trustee may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance and the Trustee do not or
are unable to do so, the Director of
Finance and the Trustee, after making provision for notification of the
beneficial
owners
by
the
then
Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit withdrawal of the Refunding
Bonds of any series from the Depository, and authenticate and deliver
registered Bond certificates to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of action
or inaction of the City, of those persons requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance is authorized to enter into any agreements
determined by the Director to be
necessary in connection with the
book entry system for the Refunding Bonds, after determining that
those agreements will not endanger
the funds or securities of the City
under the Indenture (as evidenced
by the Director’s signing of those
agreements).
(c) Dates; Denominations. The
Refunding Bonds of each series
shall be dated as of the date or
dates provided in the Certificate of
Award for that series. The Refunding Bonds of each series shall be
issued in the denominations permitted in the Supplemental Indenture
for that series.
(d) Interest and Place of Payment. The Refunding Bonds of each
series shall bear interest at their
respective interest rates specified in
the Certificate of Award (or, in the
case of variable rate Refunding
Bonds, determined pursuant to the
Supplemental Indenture) for that
series. Refunding Bonds of the same
series and same maturity may bear
interest at different interest rates.
The Refunding Bonds of each series
shall bear interest from the most
recent date to which interest has
been paid or duly provided for or, if
no interest has been paid or duly
provided for, from their date. The
principal and any redemption premium and the interest payable on
each series of Refunding Bonds
shall be payable at the times, to the
persons and in the manner set forth
in, or referenced by, the Supplemental Indenture, including, without
limitation, provisions thereof permitting special arrangements for
payments to the Depository.
(e) Maturities. The Refunding
Bonds of each series shall mature
on the dates and in the respective

February 13, 2008
principal amounts provided in the
Certificate
of
Award,
consistent
with this Ordinance and the Indenture.
(f) Optional and Mandatory Redemption. The Refunding Bonds of
each series may be subject to
redemption prior to maturity at the
option of the City, if and to the
extent so provided in the Certificate
of Award for that series. Any
Refunding Bonds so determined to
be subject to optional redemption
and maturing by their stated terms
after the earliest optional redemption date shall be subject to redemption at the option of the City on or
after the earliest optional redemption date in whole or in part on any
date at the redemption prices provided in the Certificate of Award
and in accordance with the applicable Supplemental Indenture and the
Indenture. The Refunding Bonds
designated in the Certificate of
Award as term bonds subject to
mandatory sinking fund redemption
shall be redeemed prior to maturity
on each mandatory redemption date
designated in the Certificate of
Award in the aggregate amount of
the sinking fund installment to be
paid on such mandatory redemption
date, all as provided in the Certificate of Award and in accordance
with the Supplemental Indenture.
(g)
Signing.
The
Refunding
Bonds shall be signed by the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, and
approved as to form by the Director
of Law. Any or all of the signatures
of those officials may be facsimiles.
The Refunding Bonds shall bear the
corporate seal of the City or a facsimile thereof.
(h) Numbering. The Refunding
Bonds shall be numbered as determined by the Director of Finance.
Section 5.
Award and Sale of
Refunding Bonds.
The Director of Finance shall sign
and deliver a Certificate of Award
for the Refunding Bonds. In the
event the Refunding Bonds are
issued in more than one series sold
at different times, a separate Certificate of Award shall be signed
and delivered for each separately
delivered series. The sale of the
Refunding Bonds shall be awarded
to the Original Purchasers selected
by the Director of Finance and identified in the Certificate of Award,
following
consultation
with
the
Director of Port Control and based
on an evaluation of the qualifications of firms that have proposed to
underwrite the Refunding Bonds.
Each Certificate of Award shall
determine the following, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, consistent with this Ordinance and the Indenture:
(a)
the
aggregate
principal
amount of Refunding Bonds issued;
(b) the purchase price to be paid
to the City by those Original Purchasers, which amount shall be not
less than: (i) 97% of the amount
determined by adding to the aggregate principal amount of the Refunding Bonds any aggregate original issue premium and subtracting
from that amount any aggregate
original issue discount, plus (ii) any
accrued interest on the Refunding
Bonds from their date to the date of
their delivery to the Original Purchasers;
(c) whether any Refunding Bonds
are to be subject to optional redemption prior to maturity, and, if
so, the earliest optional redemption
date for those Refunding Bonds sub-

The City Record
ject to prior redemption, which shall
be not later than ten years from the
first interest payment date of the
applicable series, and the applicable
redemption price, which shall be not
greater than 102% of the principal
amount redeemed;
(d) the dates on which principal
of the Refunding Bonds is to be
paid, which shall be not later than
thirty (30) years from their respective dates of issuance, with an identification of whether the payment is
due by stated maturity or by mandatory sinking fund redemption of
Refunding Bonds of a particular
maturity;
(e) the interest rates to be borne
by Refunding Bonds bearing interest at a fixed rate, the weighted
average of which shall not exceed
eight percent (8%) as to Refunding
Bonds of any series, and the method
by which the interest rate is to be
determined for Refunding Bonds
bearing interest at variable rates,
consistent with Section 5;
(f) the particular Outstanding
Revenue Bonds or portions thereof
to be Refunded Bonds;
(g) the title and series designation for the Refunding Bonds;
(h) the amount, if any, of proceeds of the sale of the Refunding
Bonds to be deposited in the Bond
Service Reserve Fund in order to
cause the balance therein to equal
the Required Bond Service Reserve,
if and to the extent required by the
applicable Supplemental Indenture,
and
any
determination
as
to
whether there shall be a special
reserve fund for the Refunding
Bonds of any series, separate from
the common Bond Service Reserve
Fund, or a surety or insurance policy, bank letter or line of credit, or
other form of credit or liquidity
facility enhancing the security for
Refunding Bonds of that series in
lieu of a funded reserve fund;
(i) the Paying Agent; and
(j) whether any Refunding Bonds
are to be secured by or payable from
a Credit Support Instrument.
It is determined that the terms of
the Refunding Bonds as so determined within the limitations set
forth in this Ordinance and as so
specified and set forth in the Certificate of Award will be in the best
interest of the City and consistent
with all legal requirements.
The Director of Finance may
enter into one or more Bond Purchase Agreements with the Original
Purchasers of Refunding Bonds setting forth the conditions for delivery of the Refunding Bonds that are
consistent with this Ordinance, the
Certificate of Award, and the Indenture and that are determined by the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, to be customary for airport revenue bonds issued by governmental
entities, including, without limitation, representations as to the accuracy and completeness of information contained in the Official Statement of the City described in Section 12.
Section 6. Application of Proceeds
of Refunding Bonds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Refunding Bonds shall be applied as
provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture, including:
(i) to the payment of any providers of any Credit Support Instrument, the fees and expenses required to be paid by the City to
obtain the Credit Support Instrument;

257

7
(ii) to the Bond Service Fund, that
portion, if any, of the proceeds constituting accrued interest;
(iii) to the Bond Service Reserve
Fund, that portion, if any, of the
proceeds required to be deposited in
the Bond Service Reserve Fund in
order to cause the balance therein
to equal the Required Bond Service
Reserve, subject to the provisions
set forth in Section 5 (h) of this
Ordinance for a lesser or special
deposit;
(iv) to an escrow fund established
with the Trustee, the portion of the
proceeds required to be deposited in
escrow to cause the Refunded Bonds
to be deemed paid and discharged
for purposes of the Indenture;
(v) to the counterparty under any
Hedge Agreement, any payment
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be paid from the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds, including any termination payment in
the event that the Director of
Finance determines it is in the best
interests of the City to terminate a
Hedge Agreement relating to Outstanding Revenue Bonds; and
(vi) to the Costs of Issuance
Fund, to be created under the applicable Supplemental Indenture, such
amounts as are needed to pay costs
of issuing the Refunding Bonds and
refunding the Refunded Bonds.
The proceeds from the sale of the
Refunding Bonds are appropriated
and shall be used for the purpose
for which those Refunding Bonds
are issued as provided in this Ordinance.
Section 7.
Refunding of Outstanding Revenue Bonds; Escrow
Agreements.
The Director of Finance is authorized to sign and deliver, in the
name and on behalf of the City, an
escrow agreement between the City
and the Trustee, as escrow trustee,
providing for, among other matters:
the
investment
and
holding
in
escrow of the proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds to be applied to
the
refunding
of
the
Refunded
Bonds; the application of the moneys derived from those investments
to the payment of the Bond service
charges on those Refunded Bonds;
and the irrevocable call for redemption of those Outstanding Revenue
Bonds identified in the Certificate of
Award to be Refunded Bonds to be
called for redemption prior to maturity. The Director of Finance shall
provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant
to the escrow agreement from proceeds of the Refunding Bonds to the
extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose. Provision shall be
made in the escrow agreement to
give the Trustee any written notice
of redemption required under Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture.
The Director of Finance, the Director of Port Control and other appropriate City officials shall sign all
documents
and
take
all
other
actions necessary or appropriate on
the part of the City to effect such
refunding in accordance with the
Indenture and to cause the Refunded Bonds to be deemed paid and discharged, including without limitation, the retention of an independent
firm of accountants to verify the
mathematical accuracy of the calculations relating to the escrow.

8
Section 8. Conversion and Remarketing.
In the event that the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is advantageous to the
City to convert to fixed interest
rates for a period of time or to maturity the interest on any Outstanding
Revenue Bonds bearing interest at
variable rates, the City shall undertake the conversion and remarketing of those Revenue Bonds in
accordance with the applicable Supplemental Indenture. In connection
with any conversion and remarketing of Revenue Bonds, the Director
of Finance is authorized to obtain
one or more Credit Support Instruments if the Director determines,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, that the Credit
Support Instrument will facilitate
the remarketing of the Revenue
Bonds. In the event the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is necessary to supplement or amend the Supplemental
Indenture applicable to a series of
Revenue Bonds to be remarketed in
order to address current market conditions or to permit the use of a
Credit Support Instrument or otherwise obtain financing arrangements
advantageous to the City, the Director of Finance and the Director of
Port Control are authorized to sign
and deliver an amendment of that
Supplemental
Indenture,
or
an
amended and restated Supplemental
Indenture, approved as to form by
the Director of Law. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to satisfy the Required Bond Service
Reserve for the Revenue Bonds then
outstanding under the Indenture by
the deposit of a credit facility in
lieu of cash, as permitted and more
specifically provided in the Indenture, and to apply cash released
from the Bond Service Reserve Fund
to the payment of costs of remarketing the Revenue Bonds for which
the interest rate has been converted
from variable rates of interest to
fixed rates of interest. To the extent
the costs of remarketing are not
paid from any cash released from
the Bond Service Reserve Fund,
those costs shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 105,
60 SF 106, 60 SF 140, 60 SF 141
and/or passenger facility charges,
as determined by the Director of
Finance after consultation with the
Director of Port Control. The Director of Finance and the Director of
Port Control are authorized to prepare one or more disclosure documents in connection with any conversion and remarketing under the
same terms and conditions as set
forth in Section 12 of this Ordinance
with respect to Refunding Bonds.
The Director of Finance, the Director of Port Control or any other officer of the City having responsibility for the conversion and remarketing of the Revenue Bonds is authorized to take such actions or cause
to be taken such actions as are necessary to maintain the status of any
Outstanding Revenue Bonds as TaxExempt Bonds, and the covenants
and authorizations in Section 10 of
this Ordinance shall apply to any
converted Revenue Bonds that are
Tax-Exempt Bonds. The Director of
Finance, the Director of Port Control and other City officials are
authorized to sign and deliver such
instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropri-

The City Record
ate to consummate the transactions
authorized by this Section. The
Director of Finance, the Director of
Port Control, the Director of Law
and other City officials, as appropriate, are authorized to make the
necessary arrangements on behalf
of the City to establish the date,
location, procedure and conditions
for the conversion and remarketing
of any series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds and to take all actions
necessary to effect the conversion
and remarketing of any series of
Outstanding Revenue Bonds under
the terms of this Ordinance and the
Indenture. The Clerk of Council or
other appropriate official of the City
shall
furnish
the
Remarketing
Agent a true transcript of proceedings certified by the Clerk or other
official, of all proceedings had with
reference to the conversion and
remarketing of any series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds along with
such information for the records as
is necessary to determine the validity of the conversion and remarketing.
Section 9.
Authorization of Supplemental Indentures.
In order to secure the payment of
the principal of and any premium
and
interest
on
the
Refunding
Bonds, the Director of Finance and
the Director of Port Control are
authorized, in the name and on
behalf of the City, to sign and deliver to the Trustee, in trust for the
Original Purchasers and subsequent
holders of the Refunding Bonds, one
or more Supplemental Indentures,
approved as to form and correctness
by the Director of Law, not inconsistent with this Ordinance, the Certificate of Award and the Indenture
and not substantially adverse to the
City as may be approved by the officers signing the same on behalf of
the City. The determination by those
officers that a Supplemental Indenture is not substantially adverse to
the City shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing and delivery
of that Supplemental Indenture by
those officers. Any Supplemental
Indenture may contain amendments
to the Original Indenture, as theretofor amended, to permit the City
increased flexibility for the use of
financial or credit structures and
techniques determined by the Director of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be
in the best interests of the City.
Section 10. Tax Covenants.
With respect to Refunding Bonds
that are to be issued and sold as
Tax-Exempt Bonds, the City covenants that it will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the interest on the Tax-Exempt
Bonds will be excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, and (b) in the case of any
Tax-Exempt Bonds qualifying as
bonds, the interest on which is not
treated as an item of tax preference
under Section 57 of the Code (“NonAMT Bonds”), such Tax-Exempt
Bonds will be treated as Non-AMT
Bonds.
The City further covenants that
(a) it will take or cause to be taken
such actions that may be required
of it for the interest on the TaxExempt Bonds to be and to remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will
not take or authorize to be taken
any actions that would adversely

258

February 13, 2008
affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or
persons acting for it, will, among
other acts of compliance, (i) apply
the proceeds of the Tax-Exempt
Bonds to the governmental purposes
of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield on investment property, (iii)
make timely and adequate payments
to the federal government, (iv)
maintain books and records and
make calculations and reports, and
(v) refrain from certain uses of
those proceeds and, as applicable, of
property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance, or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for issuance of the
Tax-Exempt Bonds, is hereby authorized (a) to make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice,
consent, approval, or waiver on
behalf of the City with respect to
the Tax-Exempt Bonds as the City
is permitted or required to make or
give under the federal income tax
laws, including, without limitation
thereto, any of the elections provided for in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the
Code or available under Section 148
of the Code, for the purpose of
assuring, enhancing or protecting
the favorable tax treatment or status of the Tax-Exempt Bonds or
interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose,
reducing
the
burden
or
expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or payments
of penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer,
which action shall be in writing and
signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or
obtain calculations, make payments,
and make or give reports, covenants
and certifications of and on behalf
of the City, as may be appropriate
to assure the exclusion of interest
from gross income and the intended
tax status of the Tax-Exempt Bonds,
and (c) to give one or more appropriate certificates of the City, for
inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Tax-Exempt Bonds,
setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the
amount and use of all the proceeds
of the Tax-Exempt Bonds, the facts,
circumstances
and
estimates
on
which they are based, and other
facts and circumstances relevant to
the tax treatment of the interest on
and the tax status of the TaxExempt Bonds.
Each covenant made in this Section with respect to the Tax-Exempt
Bonds is also made with respect to
all issues any portion of the debt service on which is paid from proceeds
of the Tax-Exempt Bonds (and, if
different, the original issue and any
refunding issues in a series of
refundings), to the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on the Tax-Exempt
Bonds from gross income for federal
income tax purposes, and the officers
identified above are authorized to
take actions with respect to those
issues as they are authorized in this
Section to take with respect to the
Tax-Exempt Bonds.
Section 11. Additional Documents.
The Director of Finance, the
Director of Port Control and other
City officials are authorized to sign

February 13, 2008
and deliver such instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance, the Bond Purchase
Agreements, the Supplemental Indentures, the Indenture, the Escrow
Agreements and the Hedge Agreements.
The Director of Finance, the
Director of Port Control, the Director of Law and other City officials,
as appropriate, are authorized to
make the necessary arrangements
on behalf of the City to establish the
date, location, procedure and conditions for the delivery of each series
of Refunding Bonds to the Original
Purchasers and to take all actions
necessary to effect due signing,
authentication and delivery of each
series of Refunding Bonds under the
terms of this Ordinance, the Supplemental Indentures, the Bond Purchase Agreements and the Indenture. The Clerk of Council or other
appropriate official of the City shall
furnish the Original Purchasers a
true transcript of proceedings certified by the Clerk or other official,
of all proceedings had with reference to the issuance of the Refunding Bonds along with such information for the records as is necessary
to determine the regularity and
validity of the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds.
Section 12.
Official Statements;
Continuing Disclosure.
The Director of Finance, the
Director of Port Control and other
City officials as deemed appropriate,
each are authorized on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
to (i) prepare or cause to be prepared, and make or authorize modifications, completions or changes of
or supplements to, disclosure documents in the form of a preliminary
official statement relating to the
issuance of the Refunding Bonds of
one or more series, and (ii) determine, and certify or otherwise represent, when each preliminary official statement as so prepared is a
“deemed final” official statement
(except for permitted omissions) by
the City as of its date for purposes
of Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Rule 15c2-12(b)(1).
The distribution and use of one or
more preliminary official statements
are hereby authorized and approved.
Those officers and each of them
are also authorized, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
to complete each preliminary official statement with such modifications, changes and supplements as
those
officers
shall
approve
or
authorize for the purpose of preparing and determining, and to certify
or otherwise represent, that the official statement as so revised is a
final official statement for purposes
of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b) (3) and (4).
Those officers each are further
authorized to use and distribute, or
authorize the use and distribution
of, one or more final official statements and supplements thereto in
connection with the original issuance of the Refunding Bonds as
may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate. Those officers
each are further authorized to sign
and deliver, on behalf of the City
and in their official capacities, each
final official statement and such
certificates in connection with the
accuracy of each preliminary official statement and each final official statement and any amendments
thereto as may, in their judgment,

The City Record
also be necessary or appropriate.
The Director of Finance is authorized to contract for services for the
production and distribution of preliminary and final official statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Refunding Bonds, the City
agrees, in accordance with, and as
an obligated person with respect to
the Refunding Bonds under, SEC
Rule 15c2-12, to provide or cause to
be provided such financial information and operating data and notices,
in such manner, as may be required
for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2-12. In
order to describe and specify certain
terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose,
and
thereby
to
implement
that
agreement, including provisions for
enforcement, amendment and termination, the Director of Finance and
the Director of Port Control are
authorized to prepare, or cause to be
prepared, and to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a continuing disclosure agreement
or certificate, which shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Refunding Bonds in accordance
with SEC Rule 15c2-12. The performance of that agreement shall be
subject to the availability of funds
and their annual appropriation to
meet
costs
the
City
would
be
required to incur to perform it.
Section 13. Lien of Pledge.
The Airport Revenues are subject
to the lien of the pledge under the
Indenture
without
any
physical
delivery of the Airport Revenues or
further act, and the lien of such
pledge is valid and binding against
all parties having claims of any
kind against the City (irrespective
of whether such parties have notice
of such pledge and create a perfected security interest for all purposes of Chapter 1309, Ohio Revised
Code) without the necessity for separation of delivery of the Airport
Revenues or for the filing or recording of the Indenture or any other
resolution or instrument by which
such pledge is created or any certificate, statement or other document with respect to such pledge.
The pledge of the Airport Revenues
under the Indenture shall be effective and the money therefrom and
thereof may be applied to the purposes for which pledged without
necessity for any further act of
appropriation.
Section 14.
Financial Advisors
and Consultants.
The Director of Finance may
obtain the services of one or more
Financial Advisors, from time to
time, to assist the Director of
Finance in making any of the determinations required by this Ordinance to be determined by the Director of Finance or to negotiate any
Hedge Agreements. The Director of
Finance may rely on the written
advice of any Financial Advisor so
retained. The Director of Port Control may obtain the services of one
or more feasibility consultants, from
time to time, to provide reports in
connection with the issuance and
sale of any Refunding Bonds or the
delivery of any Hedge Agreements
concerning the utilization and operation of the Airport System, debt
service coverage, rates and charges
or other matters. Any Financial
Advisor
or
consultant
employed

259

9
under the authority of this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the
transaction and be independent of
the underwriters or counterparties
and any other party interested in
the transaction.
Section 15.
Appointment of Successor Trustee.
The Director of Finance is hereby
authorized to appoint a successor
Trustee in the event that the current Trustee, The Bank of New York
Trust Company, N.A., shall resign or
be removed, or be dissolved or otherwise become incapable of acting
as Trustee under the Indenture, or
in case it shall be taken under the
control of any public officer or officers or of a receiver appointed by a
court, in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.08 of the Original Indenture.
Section 16.
Open Meeting Determination.
It is found and determined that all
formal actions of the Council concerning and relating to the adoption
of this Ordinance were adopted in
an open meeting of the Council, and
that all deliberations of the Council
and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were
in meetings open to the public in
compliance with all applicable legal
requirements.
Section 17. Separability.
Each section of this Ordinance
and each subdivision of any section
is declared to be independent, and
the finding or holding of any section or subdivision of any section to
be invalid or void shall not be
deemed or held to affect the validity of any other section or subdivision of this Ordinance.
Section 18. Recitals.
It is determined and recited that
all acts, conditions and things necessary to be done precedent to and
in the issuing of the Refunding
Bonds in order to make the same
legal, valid and binding special
obligations issued by the City of
Cleveland, Ohio will have happened,
been done and performed or will
happen, be done and performed in
regular and due form as required by
law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness
or
taxation,
either
statutory or constitutional, is applicable to the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds.
Section 19.
Sunset of Authorization. The authority granted by this
Ordinance shall expire two years
from the effective date of this Ordinance. If a preliminary official statement with respect to the issuance of
a series of Refunding Bonds is distributed under the authority of this
Ordinance at any time within the
two-year period following its effective date, then the authority granted
by this Ordinance shall not expire as
to that series of Refunding Bonds.
The Director of Finance shall notify
the Chairman of the Finance Committee and the Clerk of this Council
of the initiation of the issuance of
any Refunding Bonds under the
authority of this Ordinance.
Section 20. Emergency.
This ordinance is declared to be
an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of all the members
elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its adoption and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

10
Ord. No. 241-08.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Natural Resources for the 2008 Community
Development Grant (Drop Off) Program; authorizing the Director to
enter into one or more contracts
with various agencies to implement
the program; and authorizing one or
more contracts for the purchase of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services for the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $50,000 from
the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources, for the 2008 Community
Development Grant (Drop Off) Program, for the purposes in the summary and according thereto; that the
Director of Public Service is authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the summary
for the grant.
Section 2. That the summary for
the grant, File No 241-08-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten, including the obligation
of the City of Cleveland to provide
$25,000 in cash matching funds
from Fund No. 01-400307-639905, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved
in all respects and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into an agreement with the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources to
implement the program.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies for the implementation and operation of the program.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written contracts under
the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for
the requirements for the period of
the grant term for the necessary
items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary for
implementation and operation of the
grant, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Department
of Public Service. Bids shall be
taken in a manner which permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire grant term.

The City Record
The cost of the contracts or contracts shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify the amount of the initial purchase,
which
purchase,
together
with all later purchases, shall be
made on order of the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies under a
requisition against the contract certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Service may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That the cost of the
above authorized contracts shall be
paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance
and the cash match.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 242-08.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Finance to
employ one or more temporary
employment agencies to provide professional services to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties and the Project
Clean program and for the Department of Finance, for a period not
exceeding one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more temporary
employment agency or agencies for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland to provide the professional services necessary to supply temporary and seasonal personnel for
the Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties and Project Clean
program, for a period not exceeding
one year.
The selection of the agency or
agencies shall be made by the Board
of Control on the nomination of the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties from a list of qualified
agencies available for employment

260

February 13, 2008
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties for the purpose of compiling
a list. The compensation to be paid
for the services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control.
The contract or
contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to employ by
contract or contracts one or more
temporary employment agency or
agencies for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland to provide the
professional services necessary to
supply temporary and seasonal personnel
for
the
Department
of
Finance, for a period not exceeding
one year.
The selection of the agency or
agencies shall be made by the Board
of Control on the nomination of the
Director of Finance from a list of
qualified
agencies
available
for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of by the Director
Finance for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
and approved and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 3. That the costs for the
services contemplated shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 10 SF 054, 13 SF 738,
62 SF 001, 63 SF 001, 01-701217-638000,
01-701207-638000, and funds appropriated for this purpose in budget year
2008, Request No. 178804.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 243-08.
By Council Members Lewis, Pierce
Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development and the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies to enter
into an agreement with Rafi A.
Rahim and Linda A.A. Rahim providing for the exchange of real
properties.
Whereas, the Department of Community Development desires to enter
into an agreement with Rafi A.
Rahim and Linda A.A. Rahim (“the
Rahims”) providing for the even
exchange of certain real properties;
and
Whereas, the City property to be
transferred to the Rahims is a component of the City of Cleveland’s
land reutilization program and, as
such, can be transferred under Sec-

February 13, 2008
tion 5722.07 of the Revised Code
without the consent of other legislative authorities only if: (a) the
property is sold at not less than fair
market value under the policies of
the Land Reutilization Program;
and (b) the property is subject to
such restrictions and covenants as
appropriate to assure the land’s
effective reutilization; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Community Development and the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies are
authorized to enter into an agreement for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with the Rahims providing for the exchange of real
property, including transfer of fee
title to the Rahims of the following
described property:
PPN 118-07-094
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublot No. 19 and the Northerly 5
feet 4 inches of Sublot No. 20 in
Miller, Simpson and Waite’s Allotment of part of Original 100 Acre
Lot No. 339, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 6 of maps, Page
22 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land
having a frontage of 40 feet on the
Easterly side of East 71st Street
(formerly Giddings Avenue) and
extending back of equal width 182
feet deep to the Westerly line of
East 72nd Place (formerly Percy
Place) as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways, subject to
restrictions, limitations, conditions,
easements and zoning ordinances.
Also subject to zoning ordinances.
This property is conveyed subject
to certain Party Wall Agreement,
recorded on May 16, 1911, in Volume
1338, Page 208 and 209 of Cuyahoga
County Records, which agreement
was made by and between Cornelia
Root Gin and Maude Fenton.
Section 2. That the agreement
shall also provide that the Rahims
shall transfer fee title to the City of
Cleveland of the following described
property:
PPN 119-03-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the Easterly part of Sublot No. 4 and the
Westerly one-half of Sublot No. 5 in
the C.D. Bishop’s Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
391, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 14 of Maps, Page 11 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
together forming a parcel of land,
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
Hough Avenue, N.E., at a point
which is distant 37.50 feet Easterly
measured along said Southerly line
from the Northwesterly corner of
said Sublot No. 5;

The City Record
Thence Westerly along the Southerly line of Hough Avenue N.E.,
62.40 feet to the Northeasterly corner of land conveyed to Hough Property, Inc., by deed dated May 20,
1948 and recorded in Volume 6498,
Page
481
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence Southerly along the Easterly line of land so conveyed to
Hough Property, Inc., 70 feet to the
Southeasterly corner thereof;
Thence Westerly along the Southerly line of land conveyed to Hough
Property, Inc., 0.11 feet to a point
which is distant 25 feet Westerly
from the Easterly line of said Sublot
No. 4;
Thence Southerly and parallel
with the Easterly line of said Sublot
No. 4, about 70.35 feet to the Southerly line of said Sublot No. 4;
Thence Easterly along the Southerly line of said Sublots Nos. 4 and
5, 62.50 feet;
Thence Northerly and parallel
with the Westerly line of said
Sublot No. 5 about 140.35 feet to the
place of beginning, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That the agreement
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall include
assurances that the exchange was
conducted using fair market values,
as determined by the Board of Control; and that the City property
being transferred to the Rahims is
subject to restrictions and covenants
as the Director of Community Development deems necessary or appropriate to assure the land’s effective
reutilization.
Section 4. That the conveyance
referred to in Section 1 shall be
made by official deed prepared by
the Director of Law and executed by
the Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
provisions necessary to protect the
parties and their respective interests, including restrictive covenants
deemed necessary by the Directors
of
Community
Development
and
Law, and shall specifically contain
a provision against the erection of
any advertising signs or billboards,
excepting permitted identification
signs.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to execute on behalf of the
City of Cleveland all necessary documents to exchange the properties
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers,
environmental
audits
and all other costs necessary for the
transfer of the properties.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, City Planning, Finance

261

11
Ord. No. 246-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on West 45th Street and
Fruit Avenue to West 11th Street
Properties LLC.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to West
11th Street Properties LLC.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 003-34-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being the Southerly 30 feet of Sublot No. 216 in
Benedict & Root’s Subdivision of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot Nos. 48 and 49, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 1, Page 13
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 30 feet front in the Easterly
side of West 45th Street, and extending back of equal width 132 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
P. P. No. 004-22-094
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
43 in Hadlow’s Subdivision of part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 86 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 8 of Maps, Page 34 of
Cuyahoga County Records. Said Sublot No. 43 has a frontage of 30 feet
on the Southerly side of Fruit Avenue, S.W., (formerly Fern Street)
and extends back between parallel
lines 150 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and

12
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission,
Finance,
and
Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 247-08.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 128th Street to
Clara K. Parrish.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Clara
K. Parrish.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-08-062
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
138 and the northerly 5 feet of
Sublot No. 139 in George M. Hick’s
Glenville Addition, being a Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 365, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 20 of
Maps, Page 23 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 45 feet front on the
Westerly side of East 128 Street

The City Record
(formerly Euclid View Avenue) and
extending back of equal width
122.23 feet, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission,
Finance,
and
Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 248-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Meyer Avenue to
Benson W. Dunlap.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is

262

February 13, 2008
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Benson W. Dunlap.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 015-05-075
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Northwesterly part of Sublot No. 62 in T.
and N. Meyer’s Subdivision of part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 67 as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 20 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at the Southeasterly
corner of West 32nd Street (formerly Louis Street), and Meyer Avenue,
S.W.; thence Southerly along the
Easterly line of West 32nd Street,
33 1/2 feet; thence Easterly parallel
with the Northerly line of said Sublot No. 62, 100 feet; thence Northerly
parallel with the Easterly line of
West 32nd Street, 33 1/2 feet to the
Southerly line of Meyer Avenue,
S.W.; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of Meyer Avenue,
S.W.; 100 feet to the place of beginning, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 015-05-112
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 34 feet part of Sublot No. 62 in
J. and N. Meyer’s Allotment of part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 67, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 20
of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 34 feet front on the Southerly
side of Meyer Avenue, S.W. and
extending back of equal width 67
feet 1 inch, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 015-05-113
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 61 feet 6 inches of the
Westerly 34 feet of Sublot No. 51 in
the Meyer Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 67,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 20 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 34
feet front on the Southerly side of
Meyer Avenue, S.W., and extending
back of equal width 61 feet 6 inches,
as shown by the recorded plat.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.

February 13, 2008
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission,
Finance,
and
Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 249-08.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on West 68th Street to
Earl M. Gibbs, Jr.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Earl
M. Gibbs, Jr.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 006-30-026
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot
Nos. 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165 and
166 in James M. Hoyt and Son’s
Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lot No. 34, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 55 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the Southerly line of Camden Avenue, S.W. with the Westerly
line of West 68th Street; thence
Westerly along said Southerly line
of Camden Avenue, S.W., a distance
of 122 feet to its intersection with

The City Record
the Easterly line of West 69th Place;
thence Southerly along said Easterly line of West 69th Place and along
the Westerly line of said Sublot No.
166, a distance of 319 feet, 2 3/4
inches to its intersection with the
Northwesterly line of the N.Y.C.
Railroad right-of-way (formerly The
C.C.C. St. L. Ry right-of-way); thence
Northeasterly along said Northwesterly line of said right-of-way, a distance of 168 feet, 3 inches to its
intersection with the Westerly line
of West 68th Street; thence Northerly along said Westerly line of West
68th Street, a distance of 203 feet 8
1/4 inches to the place of beginning,
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That all documents
necessary to complete the conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director of Community Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission,
Finance,
and
Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 244-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the first annual West
Side Tavern Chili Bowl 5K, on February 16, 2008, sponsored by Hermes
Sports.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

263

13
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the first annual
West Side Tavern Chili Bowl 5K on
February 16, 2008, Start: Huron and
West 2nd; Huron to Superior; Superior across Detroit Superior Bridge;
Detroit to West 45th; West 45 to
Franklin; Franklin to West 28th;
West 28th to Detroit; across Detroit
Superior Bridge to Huron to finish,
provided that the applicant sponsor
shall meet all the requirements of
Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 245-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 11312
Buckeye Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from Gene A.
Sardon, DBA Gene’s Corner Beverage Store #1, 11312 Buckeye Road,
Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent
Number 7742555 to A & F Buckeye,
LLC, DBA Gene’s Speedy Service,
11312
Buckeye
Road,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
0009467; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and

14
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Gene A. Sardon,
DBA Gene’s Corner Beverage Store
#1, 11312 Buckeye Road, Cleveland,
Ohio
44104,
Permanent
Number
7742555 to A & F Buckeye, LLC,
DBA Gene’s Speedy Service, 11312
Buckeye
Road,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44104, Permanent Number 0009467;
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

The City Record
mittees on Community and Economic Development, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, strike line 5, 6, and
7
in
their
entirety
and
insert
“recipients.”.
2. In the first whereas clause,
lines 2 and 3, strike “which have
scheduled balloon payments”.
3.
Strike
the
second
whereas
clause in its entirety and insert:
“Whereas, the discount rate which
will be used by the City will be
10.25%; and”.
4. In Section 1, lines 2 and 3,
strike “which have scheduled balloon payments”.
5. In Section 2, strike lines 2
through 7 in their entirety and
insert “on behalf of the City, discounted prepayments from original
UDAG loan recipients to be paid to
the City, in an amount equal to the
net present value of the loan using
a 10.25% discount rate in full satisfaction of the loans, provided that
the original UDAG loan is due on or
before December 31, 2023 and provided that the discounted prepayments are received by April 30, 2008.
That
the
Director
of
Economic
Development is authorized to”.
6. Insert new Section 5 to read as
follows:
“Section 5. That by May 1, 2008,
the Director of Economic Development shall provide the Council President and Clerk of Council with a
written list of companies that took
advantage of the discounted prepayment plan.”.
7. Renumber existing Sections 5
and 6 with new “Section 6” and “Section 7”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
MOTION
By Council Member Brancatelli,
seconded by Council Member Coats,
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Member Fannie
M. Lewis, be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:05 p.m. to meet on Monday, February 25, 2008 at 7:00 p.m. in the
Council Chambers.

SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1942-07.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into one or more
contract amendments with various
original
UDAG
loan
recipients
which have scheduled balloon payments to accept discount prepayments of their UDAG loans.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, and
Law; Passage recommended by Com-

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

264

February 13, 2008
BOARD OF CONTROL
February 6, 2008
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, February 6,
2008, at 10:30 a.m. with Mayor Jackson presiding.
Present: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Directors Carroll,
Flask,
Cox,
Hutchinson,
Acting
Director Weyburne, Directors Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Absent: Director Rush.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Debra
Linn
Talley,
Director,
Office of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 68-08.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that under
Section 101 of the Charter, Section
181.19 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and Resolution No. 921-52, adopted by the Board
of Control on November 26, 1952, the
report of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for the sale of
scrap, personal property, and byproducts during the month of January, 2008 in the amount of $21,759.29,
attached and made a part of this
resolution, is received, approved and
ordered filed.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Directors Carroll,
Flask,
Cox,
Hutchinson,
Acting
Director Weyburne, Directors Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 69-08.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Interstate Safety & Service Co.,
Inc., for an estimated quantity of
building materials and used bricks,
for group A, item no. 7, for the various divisions of City government,
for the period of one year starting
upon the later of execution of the
contract or the day following expiration of the currently effective contract, received on November 16, 2007,
under the authority of Ordinance
No. 1724-07, passed on October 29,
2007, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$210,000.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Finance is requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
the goods and/or services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 175919
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $10,500.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.

The City Record

February 13, 2008
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi,
Dumas,
Acting
Director
Withers,
Director
Smith,
Acting
Director Scott, Directors Carroll,
Flask,
Cox,
Hutchinson,
Acting
Director Weyburne, Directors Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 70-08.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Graham Enterprises Inc., d.b.a.
Aires Distribution, for an estimated
quantity of janitorial supplies, for
group B, items nos. 10, 11, 17, 19, 19a,
23-30, 32-33, 34-34a, 35-37, 39-40, 43-48,
50-52, 54-56, 58, 60-62, 66-71, 73, 75a, b,
c, 76-83, 83a, 86-89, 94a, b, c, 95-99, 99a,
102-106, 111, 115, 120 and 122, for the
various divisions of City government,
for the period of two years starting
upon the later of execution of a contract or the day, following expiration
of the currently effective contract for
the same goods or services, received
on December 5, 2007, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 1724-07,
passed on October 29, 2007, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $157,007.94, is affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Finance is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the

15

initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 172215
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $10,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Acting Director Withers, Director Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Weyburne, Directors Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 71-08.
By Director Dumas.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Emerald Supply Inc., for an estimated quantity of janitorial supplies, for Group A, All Items and
Group B Items Nos. 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
18, 20, 21, 22, 31, 38, 41, 42, 49, 53, 57,
59, 63, 64, 65, 72, 84, 85, 90, 91a, b, c,
92, 93a, b, c, 100, 101, 107, 108, 108a,
109, 109a, 110, 110a, 112, 113, 114, 116,
119, 121 and 123, for the various divisions of City government, for the
period of two years starting upon

the later of execution of a contract
or the day following expiration of
the currently effective contract for
the same goods or services, received
on December 5, 2007, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 1724-07,
passed on October 29, 2007, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $125,668.20, is affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Finance is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 181852
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $10,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less, than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Acting Director Withers, Director Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Weyburne, Directors Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.

Resolution No. 72-08.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved under the authority of Ordinance No. 1850-06, passed by the Council of the City of Cleveland on
April 2, 2007, the firm of BAA USA, Inc. (“BAA”) is selected upon nomination of the Director of Port Control from
a list of qualified persons or firms determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control
as the concessionaire to design, construct, lease and manage all retail merchandise and food and beverage concessions at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, including the remote rental car facility, and installation of
one automated teller machine at Burke Lakefront Airport.
Be it further resolved that the Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written Concession Agreement with BAA for an initial term for Phase I, retail merchandise concessions, starting upon execution of the
Concession Agreement and expiring ten years after the expiration of the prior concession agreement for retail
merchandise, City Contract No. 42575, and with the initial term for Phase II, food and beverage concessions, starting upon expiration of the existing food and beverage concession contract and expiring ten years later, with one
option, exercisable by the Director of Port Control, to renew both the Phase I and Phase II concessions each for
a term of five years starting upon the expiration of the respective initial term, subject to City Council approval,
at a concession fee of the greater of the following Minimum Annual Guarantee or the Percentage of Gross Revenue for each year of the initial and option terms, as follows:
Period

Minimum Annual Guarantee

Percentage of
Gross Revenue

Commencement Date–
1
12/31/08

None

January 1, 2009 through
December 31, 2009

$3,000,000

January 1, 2010 through
December 31, 2012

The greater of $4,500,000 or 80% of prior
year’s Concession Payment Amount

70%

January 1, 2013 through
December 31, 2015

The greater of $4,750,000 or 80% of prior
year’s Concession Payment Amount

70%

January 1, 2016 through
December 31, 2017

The greater of $5,000,000 or 80% of prior
year’s Concession Payment Amount

70%

January 1, 2018 through
December 31, 2018 and
remainder of Original Terms

The greater of the following: (i) $5,000,000
[x/365] + $4,500,000 [(x/365)/365] or (ii) 80%
of prior year’s Concession Payment Amount

Option Terms

The greater of: $5,000,000 or 80% of prior
year’s Concession Payment Amount

1

55%

1

65%

x = Number of days both Phase 1 Premises and Phase 2 Premises are leased in the year.

265

70%

75%

The City Record

16

February 13, 2008

1
Should the term of the Lease for the Phase 2 Premises begin before January 1, 2009, both the minimum annual
guarantee (“MAG”) and percentage fee levels for the period beginning with the Effective Date until December,
31, 2008, shall be increased by amounts equal to the pro-rata portion of the MAG and Percentage Fee for the subsequent period.
Be it further resolved that the contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain such other
provisions as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors Triozzi, Dumas, Acting Director Withers, Director Smith, Acting Director Scott,
Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox, Hutchinson, Acting Director Weyburne, Directors Fumich, Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.

Resolution No. 73-08.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 186-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
March 12, 2007, the firm of R. W.
Armstrong & Associates, Inc. (“Consultant), is selected upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified persons
or firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Port Control as the firm of consultants available to be employed by
contract to supplement the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City to provide
professional services necessary to
provide general engineering and
architectural services, for a period
of two years, with two options to
renew
for
additional
one
year
periods, for the various divisions of
the Department of Port Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with R. W. Armstrong & Associates,
Inc. for the above-mentioned services, based upon its proposal dated
October 30, 2007, which contract
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, shall provide that the compensation to R. W. Armstrong & Associates, Inc. for the services authorized shall not exceed $250,000.00,
and shall contain such other provisions as the Director of Law deems
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subconsultants by R. W. Armstrong & Associates, Inc. is approved:
Subconsultant

Consulting Engineering,
Inc.

Percentage
Amount

4% - DBE
$10,000.00

G & T Associates, Inc.

5% - DBE
$12,500.00

Ed Arch Associates, Inc.

2% - DBE
$ 5,000.00

McGuiness Unlimited, Inc.

2% - DBE
$ 5,000.00

Resource International,
Inc.

A2S04 Architecture, LLC

Robert P. Madison
International, Inc.

3% - DBE
$ 7,500.00
2% -Non-DBE
$ 5,000.00

2% -Non-DBE
$ 5,000.00

Osborn Architects &
Engineers, Inc.

J & L Laboratories, Inc.
8% -Non-DBE
$20,000.00

DLZ Ohio, Inc.

4% -Non-DBE
$10,000.00

KS Associates, Inc.

3% -Non-DBE
$ 7,500.00

Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Acting Director Withers, Director Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Weyburne, Directors Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 74-08.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under the authority of Ordinance No. 186-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
March 12, 2007, the firm of C & S
Engineers Inc. (“Consultant”), is
selected upon the nomination of the
Director of Port Control from a list
of qualified persons, or firms determined after a full and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control
as the firm of consultants available
to be employed by contract to supplement
the
regularly
employed
staff of the several departments of
the City to provide professional services necessary to provide general
engineering and architectural services, for a period of two years, with
two options to renew for additional
one year periods, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Port Control is authorized to enter into a written contract
with C & S Engineers, Inc. for the
above-mentioned
services,
based
upon its proposal dated October 11,
2007, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide that the compensation to
C & S Engineers, Inc. for the services authorized shall not exceed
$250,000.00, and shall contain such
other provisions as the Director of
Law deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subconsultants by C & S Engineers, Inc. is
approved:
Percentage
Amount

Subconsultant
Airport Design
Consultants, Inc.
Consulting Engineering,
Inc.

266

3% - DBE
$ 7,500.00
5% - DBE
$12,500.00

McGuiness Unlimited,
Inc.

Van Auken Akins, Inc.

2% - DBE
$ 5,000.00

10% - DBE
$25,000.00
5% - DBE
$12,500.00

APTech, Inc.

2% -Non-DBE
$ 5,000.00

CAGE, Inc.

5% -Non-DBE
$12,500.00

DLZ Ohio, Inc.

3% -Non-DBE
$ 7,500.00

DM1M Aviation, Inc.

3% -Non-DBE
$ 7,500.00

S.T.V.

2% -Non-DBE
$ 5,000.00

Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Acting Director Withers, Director Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Weyburne, Directors Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 75-08.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Petroleum Traders Corporation for an estimated quantity
of diesel fuel, items 1 (a, b), 5 (a,
b), 6 (a, b), for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the
period of one year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on December 27, 2007, under
the authority of Section 131.18 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$920,059.00 (0% Net 30), is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of the contract the
following:
Requisition No. 177782
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $200,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.

February 13, 2008
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Acting Director Withers, Director Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Weyburne, Directors Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 76-08.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Great Lakes Petroleum Co. for an estimated quantity
of diesel fuel, items 2 (a, b, c), 3
(a), for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for the period of one
year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
December
27,
2007,
under
the
authority of Section 131.18 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, which on the basis of
the
estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$128,450.00
(Net),
is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director
of Public Service is requested to
enter into a requirement contract
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
which shall provide for the immediate
purchase
as
the
initial
amount of the contract the following:
Requisition No. 177783
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $7,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Acting Director Withers, Director Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Weyburne, Directors Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 77-08.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Universal Oil, Inc.
for an estimated quantity of diesel
fuel, item 4, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period of one year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on December 27, 2007,
under
the
authority
of
Section
131.18 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $6,226.00 (Net), is
affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid, and the Director
of Public Service is requested to
enter into a requirement contract
for
the
goods
and/or
services,
which shall provide for the immediate
purchase
as
the
initial
amount of the contract the following:

The City Record
Requisition No. 177784
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $2,500.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Acting Director Withers, Director Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Weyburne, Directors Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
Resolution No. 78-08.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that, under Ordinance No. 1255-07,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland, September 24, 2007, the
United Skates of Cleveland, LLC, is
selected upon nomination of the
Director of Park, Recreation and
Properties from a list of companies
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties as the
company to provide roller skating
management and concession services at the skating rink located
within Zelma Watson George Recreation Center, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties;
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is authorized to enter
into a written contract with United
Skates of Cleveland LLC based on
its September 4, 2007 proposal, to
supply managerial services for the
daily operations of the roller skating rink and concession stand located within Zelma Watson George
Recreation Center for a period of
five years beginning January 15,
2008 with five one-year options to
renew, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law and
shall include such additional provisions as the Director considers necessary to benefit and protect the
public interest;
Be it further resolved that the
management fee paid to United
Skates of Cleveland, LLC, under the
agreement shall consist of a monthly fixed Management Fee of $6,950.00,
plus 7% of monthly gross revenues
and an additional incentive of 3% of
gross revenue where monthly expenses do not exceed 68% of monthly gross revenue, provided that the
annual aggregate of the management fee paid to United Skates of
Cleveland, LLC shall not exceed
$87,000.00.
Yeas: Mayor Jackson, Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Acting Director Withers, Director Smith, Acting Director
Scott, Directors Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Hutchinson, Acting Director Weyburne, Directors Fumich, Guzman
and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Rush.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

267

17
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2008
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 08-19: 1852 Columbus
Road (Ward 13)
Eighteen Fifty Properties, owner,
and James Hayes appeal to change
from manufacturing to a restaurant
use the building and property located in a General Industry District on
the northwest corner of Columbus
Road and Merwin Avenue at 1852
Columbus Road; the proposed use
requiring eighteen parking spaces,
determined at the rate of one space
for each employee, plus one space
for each four seats, based upon the
maximum
seating
capacity,
and
none are proposed contrary to Section 349.04(f) of the Codified Ordnances.
Calendar No. 08-20: Appeal from Nuisance Abatement, 16608 Westfield
Avenue (Ward 11)
David Sims appeals under the
authority of Section 76-6 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland
and Section 329.02(d) of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances from the
nuisance abatement fees assessed
by the Cleveland Division of Parks
Maintenance for property located at
16608 Westfield Avenue and identified as Permanent Parcel Number
116-22-034.

The City Record

18
Calendar No. 08-24: 815 Whitcomb
Road (Ward 11)
Haskell Orr, owner, appeals to
establish use as a Type A day care
in an existing single family residence, located in a B1 Two-Family
District on a 42' x 150' parcel at
815 Whitcomb Road; subject to the
limitations of Section 337.03 and
by reference, regulated in Section
337.02(f)(3)(c), the proposed use as
a Type A day care is less than 30
feet from an adjoining premises in
a residence district and is subject to
the Board of Zoning Appeals approval, according to the provisions
of the Cleveland Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

February 13, 2008

Calendar No. 07-222: 2856 Woodhill
Road postponed to March 31, 2008.
In Executive Session on February
11, 2008 the following appeals heard
by the Board on February 4, 2008
were adopted and approved.
Calendar No. 08-5: 17914 Euclid Avenue
The Cleveland Metropolitan School
District appealed to construct a
Kindergarten through Eighth Grade
two-story school in a D2 Multi-Family District.
Calendar No. 07-229: 3920 Valley Road
Leo Margo appealed to establish
use as an auto wrecking and dismantling yard and storage of auto
parts on an 80' x 270' parcel in a
Semi-Industry District.

REPORT OF THE BOARD
The
following
Denied:

OF ZONING APPEALS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2008
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, February 11, 2008, the following appeals
were heard by the Board.
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 08-9: 12106-12112 Mayfield Road
Flynn Properties LLC, owner, and
Terry Tarantino, tenant, appealed to
renovate an existing restaurant and
include an additional 80 seat outdoor patio with an additional 34
indoor seats on a corner parcel in a
General Retail District; subject to
condition.
The
nied:

following

appeal

was

De-

None.
The following appeals were Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 07-213: 5421 Fleet Avenue
Fleet Investments Ltd., owner, and
Patrick Farrell, tenant, appealed to
expand an existing bar into an adjacent vacant tenant space in a Local
Retail business District.
Calendar No. 07-242: 1016 Nathaniel
Road
Lashunda Lewis appealed to change
use of a two-family dwelling to a
Type A day care in a Two-Family
District.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

None.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 08-7: 3123-27 East 65th
Street postponed to March 3, 2008.
Calendar No. 07-241: 4450 Broadview
Road postponed to March 24,
2008.

appeals

were

Calendar No. 08-3: 2871 East 116th
Street
Chareese, Inc., d.b.a. Ms. Martha’s
Restaurant & Lounge appealed from
being
denied
a
Coin
Operated
Amusement Device License.
Calendar No. 08-4: 2871 East 116th
Street
Chareese, Inc., d.b.a. Ms. Martha’s
Restaurant & Lounge appealed from
being denied a Coin Operated Pool
Table License.
Calendar No. 07-249: 8226 Woodland
Avenue
Saeid B. Amini appealed to establish use of an acreage parcel for
automobile salvage, parts storage,
repair and dismantling in a General
Industry District.
Calendar No. 07-250: 8322 Woodland
Avenue
Saeid B. Amini appealed to establish use of an acreage parcel for
automobile salvage, parts storage,
repair and dismantling in a General
Industry District.
Calendar No. 07-251: 8340 Buckeye
Road
Saeid B. Amini appealed to establish use of an acreage parcel for an
automobile salvage yard in a SemiIndustry District.
Calendar No. 07-252: 8400 Buckeye
Road
Saeid B. Amini appealed to establish an accessory use with auto
repair at an existing auto salvage
yard in a Semi-Industry District.
In Executive Session on February
11, 2008 the following appeal heard
by the Board on October 1, 2007 was
adopted and approved.
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Re: Report of the Meeting of
February 6, 2008
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
* * *
Docket A-176-07.
RE: Appeal of William K. Watson,
Owner of the Three Dwelling Units
Two & One/half Story Frame Property located on the premises known
as 4311 Fenwick Avenue from a
CONDEMNATION ORDER of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated September
17, 2007, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal and to REMAND the property at 4311 Fenwick Avenue to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-189-07.
RE:
Appeal
of
Csaba
Varga,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single Family Residence Two Story
Frame Property located on the
premises known as 3446 East 53rd
Street from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER, dated October 23,
2007 of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to pull permits and four (4) months
in which to complete abatement of
the violations; the interior renovations must commence within fortyfive (45) days; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Bradley and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.

Ap* * *

Calendar No. 07-189: 4081 Rocky River
Drive
Lucy Champa appealed to add a
“drive through” window to an existing ice cream store in a General
Retail Business District.
Secretary

268

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS

Docket A-1-08.
RE: Appeal of Aurora Loan Services, LLC, Mortgagee of the One
Dwelling Unit One & One/half Story
Frame located on the premises
known as 16905 East Park Drive
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE of the

February 13, 2008
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated November
26, 2007, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant sixty (60) days in which
to obtain permits and commence
abating the violations; the property
is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-2-08.
RE: Appeal of Visionary Investments, Inc., Owner of the Two
Dwelling Units Two-Family Residence Two & One/half Story Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 2280 East 105th Street
from a 14 DAY CONDEMNATION
ORDER — MS of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated December 12, 2007, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and six (6) months
in which to complete abatement of
the violations; the property is REMANDED at this time to the Department of Building and Housing for
supervision and any required further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-7-08.
RE: Appeal of City Rose Ltd.,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 14200 Darley Avenue from an ADJUDICATION ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated December 12, 2007, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require that
any structure erected on the Parcel
1 must maintain a clearance of forty
(40) feet from a three (3) hour rated
wall or sixty (60) feet from an
unrated wall between the new all
and the new property line, and to
require that that be recorded in the
deed. Motion so in order. Motioned
by Mr. Saunders and seconded by
Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-8-08.
RE: Appeal of General Environmental Management LLC/ESG Holdings LLC, Owner of the Property

The City Record
located on the premises known as
2655
Transport
Road
from
an
ORDER TO CEASE OPERATION —
FIRE CODE of the Chief of the Division of Fire, dated January 11, 2008,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, based upon
the testimony presented by all sides,
the limited expertise of the Board
having not viewed this and not
being certified observers of it, the
letter of the documents presented to
us force us or compel us to find that
the operation of the tanks is to
cease under these conditions and
that the January 11th, 2008 conditions must be complied with in order
to resume or continue operations.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Saab and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-12-08.
RE: Appeal of D.M.T., Inc., Owner
of the Assembly-Nite Clubs, Restaurants Five Story Concrete Frame
Property located on the premises
known as 11625 Euclid Avenue
from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION —
HVAC, dated December 27, 2007 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to permit the
makeup air to remain with the provision that a suitable screen protective rail be erected around and that
the variance be recorded with the
deed, noting the concurrence of the
adjacent neighbor. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Bradley and
seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.

19
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Docket A-14-08.
RE: Appeal of CB Richard Ellis,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 526 Superior
Avenue (Suite 1111) from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — HVAC of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated January 28,
2008, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to permit the
space to remain and to be occupied
in its present condition, noting that
smoke detectors have been installed
and will be tested for conformance
and requesting a letter from the
owners stating that in the future
this problem will be properly addressed. Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by
Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Saab for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-169-07—Midfirst Bank.
A-172-07—Willie & Bertha Tyree.
A-175-07—Bank of New York.
A-177-07—Tyrone M. Daniels.
A-185-07 — Community Assessment
& Treatment.
A-188-07—Terminal Investments.
A-4-08—City of Cleveland.
A-5-08—John J. Falsone.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.

* * *
* * *
Docket A-13-08.
RE: Appeal of Brother Hood Of
Locomotive Engineers, Owner of the
Retail Shops, Carry-out Food Shops
Property located on the premises
known as 1370 Ontario Street from
a
NOTICE
OF
VIOLATION
—
HVAC, dated January 6, 2008 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to permit the
structure to remain as constructed,
granting the variance to the combustibles in the return plenum, noting that the fire alarm system has
been upgraded and that smoke
detectors have been installed in the
plenum, and requesting a letter from
the owner stating that future spaces
will be renovated removing combustibles in the plenum and certifying the property performance of
Fire Prevention in alarm system.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Saab and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.

269

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Minutes as presented by the
Secretary, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
January 23, 2008
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

The City Record

20
CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2008
File No. 19-08 — Purchase of Various
Spartan and Smeal Fire Apparatus
Equipment Parts and Labor and
Related Parts, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 68607, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2008 AT
12:00 P.M., DIVISION OF MOTOR
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, BUILDING #1, 4150 EAST 49TH STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.

February 13, 2008

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 2008

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS

File No. 21-08 — Grinding of Pavement, for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 91007, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 2008 AT 2:00
P.M., DIVISION OF STREETS, 601
LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.

AND ORDINANCES

File No. 22-08 — Vehicle Modem, for
the Division of Police, Department
of Public Safety, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 916-07, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2008 AT 10:00
A.M., THE OFFICE OF HOMELAND SECURITY, CONFERENCE
ROOM #306, 205 WEST SAINT
CLAIR AVENUE, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
February 6, 2008 and February 13, 2008
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 2008
File No. 23-08 — Constructing and Repairing Catch Basin and Manholes
at Various Locations Throughout
the City, for the Division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, as authorized by
Section 129.291 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2008
AT 10:00 A.M., DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
12302 KIRBY AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108.
February 13, 2008 and February 20, 2008
THURSDAY, MARCH 6, 2008
File No. 24-08 — Disposal of Construction and Demolition Debris –
Contract C & D, for the Division of
Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 160407, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, October 29, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2008 AT 2:00
P.M., DIVISION OF WASTE COLLECTION, 5600 CARNEGIE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.

File No. 20-08 — Purchase of Various
Hydraulic
Hoses,
Hose
Ends,
Adapters, Fittings, Brass Tooling,
Equipment and Accessories, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 686-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2008 AT
11:00 A.M., DIVISION OF MOTOR
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, BUILDING #1, 4150 EAST 49TH STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.

File No. 25-08 — Ballistic Vest, Carriers, T-Shirts, Bras and Tactical
Carriers, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Section 135.06 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2008 AT 10:00
A.M., THE JUSTICE CENTER
BUILDING,
8TH
FLOOR,
1300
ONTARIO STREET, CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44113.

February 6, 2008 and February 13, 2008

February 13, 2008 and February 20, 2008

270

Res. No. 201-08.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Sweeney, Brancatelli and
Cummins.
An emergency resolution pledging
the Mayor’s and Council’s support of
the passage of Issue 15 on March 4,
2008, and urging the Cleveland voters to support the issue relating to
health and human services in Cuyahoga County.
Whereas, on March 4, 2008, Issue
15 will be appearing on the ballot
for
consideration
by
Cuyahoga
County voters to replace the existing health and human services levy
currently at 4.9 mills with a levy of
4.8 mills for each year, thus reducing the tax imposed by 0.1 mill per
year; and
Whereas, the Mayor and the Council of the City of Cleveland pledge
their support of Issue 15 relating to
health and human services in Cuyahoga County and urge the voters of
the City of Cleveland to support its
passage at the March 4, 2008, election; and
Whereas, the levy revenue provides base funding for the County’s
child
welfare,
public
assistance,
senior citizen, and homeless prevention agencies, as well as funding for
the MetroHealth Hospital, the local
share of foster care, adoption, and
services to children-at-risk; and
Whereas,
early
childhood
programs ensure that our youngest residents receive services and support
necessary to grow up safe, healthy,
and prepared for school; and that as
these children are supported in their
growth and development, they will
continue to thrive as productive
future citizens of our region; and
Whereas, senior citizens, through
“Options” and “Passport,” receive
home health care assistance, which
helps them maintain their independence and also prevents them from
moving into assisted living or nursing home facilities; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
or safety in that passage of this
levy is a critical piece of our community safety net, available for all
of us at any time, and
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor and the
Council of the City of Cleveland
pledge its support of and urge the
voters of the City of Cleveland to
support Issue 15 at the primary election to be held on March 4, 2008,
relating to health and human services in Cuyahoga County.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

February 13, 2008
Res. No. 202-08.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at 14045
St. Clair Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 1152-07, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit to 14045
St. Clair Avenue by Resolution No.
1152-07 adopted by the Council on
July 11, 2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to Bill’s
Lounge, Inc., DBA Bill’s Lounge,
14045 St. Clair Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio 44110, Permanent Number 0717802
be and the same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1152-07,
containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

Res. No. 203-08.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Permit to 12713-17
Woodside Avenue, 1st floor and
basement.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for the
transfer of ownership of a C2 and
C2X Liquor Permit from Aysha, Inc.,
DBA Woodside Food Mart, 12713-17
Woodside Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 0343704 to Fayez
Abukhalil, DBA Franks Beverage,
12713-17 Woodside Avenue, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 0037000; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and

The City Record
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Aysha, Inc.,
DBA Woodside Food Mart, 12713-17
Woodside Avenue, 1st floor and
basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 0343704 to Fayez
Abukhalil, DBA Franks Beverage,
12713-17 Woodside Avenue, 1st floor
and basement, Cleveland, Ohio 44108,
Permanent Number 0037000; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

Res. No. 204-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a D5 Liquor Permit at 10008 Buckeye Avenue, and repealing Resolution No. 1130-07, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a D5 Liquor Permit to 10008 Buckeye Avenue by Resolution No. 113007 adopted by the Council on July
11, 2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and

271

21
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a D5
Liquor Permit to Ray Por, Inc., DBA
Eastwood Inn, 10008 Buckeye Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, Permanent Number 7224552-0007 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1130-07, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

Res. No. 205-08.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
15310 Kinsman Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Mr. VS Convenience, Inc., DBA Mr. VS Convenience, 15310 Kinsman Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number
62088150005; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit

22
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Mr. VS Convenience, Inc., DBA Mr. VS Convenience, 15310 Kinsman Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent Number
62088150005; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

Res. No. 206-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 3353
West 44th Street, and repealing Resolution No. 1334-07, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 3353
West 44th Street by Resolution No.
1334-07 adopted by the Council on
August 8, 2007; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Khaldieh
Awadallah DBA Storer Delicatessen,
3353 West 44th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44109,
Permanent
Number
0340206 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 133407, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

The City Record
Res. No. 207-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C2 Liquor Permit at
13925 Puritas Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C2 Liquor Permit at Michael Alexander
Sarkis,
LLC,
13925
Puritas
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent Number 7744703; and
Whereas, the granting of this application for a liquor permit to this
high crime area, which is already
saturated with other liquor outlets,
is contrary to the best interests of
the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C2
Liquor Permit at Michael Alexander
Sarkis, LLC, 13925 Puritas Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent
Number 7744703; and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

272

February 13, 2008
Ord. No. 1820-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on West 45th Street to
West 11th Street Properties LLC.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 002-35-144 as
more fully described below, to West
11th Street Properties LLC.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-35-144
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: and known as being the
Southerly 15 feet of Sublot No. 229
and the Northerly 30 feet of Sublot
No. 230 in Benedict & Root Subdivision of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot Nos. 48 and 49, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 1 of Maps, Page 13 of Cuyahoga
County Records, and together forming a parcel of land 45 feet front on
the Westerly side of West 45th
Street, and extending back of equal
width 132, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 002-35-145 as
more fully described below to West
11th Street Properties LLC.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-35-145
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Southerly half of Sublot No. 230 in
Benedict and Root’s Subdivision of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lots Nos. 48 and 49, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 1 of Maps,
Page
13
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and 30 feet front on the
Westerly side of West 45th Street,

February 13, 2008
(formerly Taylor Street), and extending back of equal width 132 feet
as appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 002-35-146 as
more fully described below, to West
11th Street Properties LLC.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-35-146
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 30 feet of Sublot No. 231
in Benedict and Roots Allotment of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lots Nos. 48 and 49, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 1 of Maps,
Page
13
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 30 feet front on
the Westerly side of West 45th
Street (formerly Taylor Street) and
extending back of equal width 132
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 002-35-147 as
more fully described, to West 11th
Street Properties LLC.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-35-147
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Westerly 61 feet of the Southerly 30 feet
of Sublot No. 231 and the Westerly
61 feet of the Northerly 10 feet of
Sublot No. 232 in the Benedict and
Root’s Allotment of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 48 and
49, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 1 of Maps, Page 13 of Cuyahoga County Records and together
forming a parcel of land 40 feet by
61 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 002-35-214 as
more fully described below, to West
11th Street Properties LLC.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-35-214
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the Easterly 71 feet of the Southerly 30 feet
of Sublot No. 231 and the Easterly
71 feet of the Northerly 10 feet of
Sublot No. 232 in the Benedict and

The City Record
Root’s Allotment of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot Nos. 48 and
49, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 1 of Maps, Page 13 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Said parts of Sublot Nos. 231 and
232 together form a parcel of land
having a frontage of 40 feet on the
Westerly side of West 45th Street
(formerly Taylor Street) and extending back of equal width 71 feet
deep, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to Right of Way for easement filed July 26, 1950, recorded in
Volume 7049, Page 159 of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 11. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 12. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 13. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

Ord. No. 1821-07 (Duplicate).
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Saranac Road
to
John M. Olivo.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization

273

23
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 115-08-047,
as more fully described below, to
John M. Olivo.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 115-08-047
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
151 in W. F. Walworth’s Subdivision
of part of Original Euclid Township
Lot No. 1, Tract No. 16, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 8, Page
6 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Northwesterly side of Saranac Road, N.E.,
and extending hack of equal width
140 feet, as appears by said plat, be
the some more or less, hut subject
to all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

24
Ord. No. 2009-07.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more professional consultants or
one or more firms of professional
consultants necessary to perform
geotechnical and environmental engineering services, and testing and consulting services.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more professional consultants or
one or more firms of professional
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to perform geotechnical and environmental engineering services, and testing
and consulting services.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Service from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Service for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Service, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of the services authorized shall be paid from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 364, 20 SF 373, 20
SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, 20 SF
500, 20 SF 506, and 20 SF 510,
Request No. 175503.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

Ord. No. 59-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into contract
with The K & D Group, Inc., or its
designee, to provide development
assistance to partially finance the
acquisition and redevelopment of
the Atrium Office Plaza Complex,
located in the historic Gateway District, and certain other costs necessary to redevelop the property.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has determined that to
assist
with
business
expansion,

The City Record
retain and create jobs within the
City of Cleveland, and increase the
City’s tax base, it is in the public
interest and a proper public purpose
for the City to provide financing
assistance for projects that have
business retention, expansion, and
attraction implication or that have
certain job creation potential; and
Whereas, in compliance with Section 13, of Article VIII, Ohio Constitution, the City has established
the Cleveland Citywide Development
Corporation for review of proposed
economic development projects; and
Whereas, this project has been
reviewed by the City Department of
Community Development and approved by the Cleveland Citywide
Development Corporation at its December 20, 2007 meeting; and
Whereas, Council desires to authorize the development assistance to
the project which has been reviewed
by the Department of Community
Development and approved by the
Cleveland Citywide Development Corporation in compliance with the Ohio
Constitution and statutory requirements; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, provided The K &
D Group, Inc., or its designee, submits documents required by the
City’s bond counsel, the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into contract with The
K & D Group, Inc., or its designee,
to provide development assistance to
partially finance the acquisition and
redevelopment of the Atrium Office
Plaza Complex, located in the historic Gateway District, and certain
other costs necessary to redevelop
the property.
Section 2. That the terms of the
loan shall be according to the
terms set forth in the Summary
contained in File No. 59-08-A, as
presented to the Finance Committee of this Council at the public
hearing on this legislation and
shall not be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract shall not exceed $5,100,000, and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 10 SF
545, 10 SF 551, and 17 SF 008, which
funds are appropriated for this purpose, Request No. 178621.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept the collateral as set
forth in the file referenced above in
order to secure repayment of the
loan. Any loan agreement, security
instrument, or other document shall
be prepared and approved by the
Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
of the loan and to deposit the
monies in Fund Nos. 10 SF 546, 10
SF 554, and 17 SF 008.
Section 6. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to charge and accept fees in
an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and the fees are appropriated to cover costs incurred in

274

February 13, 2008
the preparation of the loan application, closing and servicing of the
loan. The fees shall be deposited to
and expended from Fund No. 10 SF
546, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the contract and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 8. The contract authorized
in this legislation will require the
recipient of financial assistance to
work with The Workforce Investment Board for Workforce Area No.
3 to identify and solicit qualified
candidates
for
job
opportunities
related to the City’s contracts, and
place special emphasis on the hard
to employ, including but not limited
to the disabled and persons who
have been convicted of or plead
guilty to a criminal offense, unless
the criminal conviction or related
circumstances relate to the duties
for the particular job sought.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

Ord. No. 67-08.
By Council Members Lewis, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 188.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 2031-A-02,
passed June 10, 2003, relating to violation and penalty regarding construction contracts.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 188.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2031-A-02, passed June 10,
2003, is amended:
Section 188.05

Violation and Penal-

ty
(a) When work under a Construction Contract is completed, and
in the event that the Director determines that the Contractor has failed
to fulfill the requirements contained
in Section 188.02 concerning Construction Worker Hours performed
by Residents of the City or has
failed to submit reports as required
in Sections 188.02 and 188.04, the
City is deemed to have been damaged. Good faith efforts on the part
of the Contractor or Subcontractor to
provide employment to Residents of
the City shall not suffice to replace
the actual, verified achievement of
the requirements contained in Section 188.02.
(b) In the event the Contractor
breaches its Construction Contract

February 13, 2008
obligation for Resident Construction
Worker Hours stated in Section
188.02, one eighth (1/8) of one (1)
percent of the final total amount of
the Construction Contract shall be
paid by the Contractor to the City
in payment for each percentage of
shortfall toward the Resident Construction Worker Hours set forth in
Section 188.02 or the reduced requirement established by the Director
in
accordance
with
Section
188.03. In the event the Low Income
Person objective is not achieved, the
Director shall determine if a penalty is appropriate and assess the
penalty in his/her discretion.
(c) Failure to submit, or knowing
falsification of, the reports required
in Sections 188.02 and 188.04 shall
result in a breach of the Construction Contract subject to assessment
of the maximum penalty provided in
division (b), and the penalty shall
be calculated as if no Residents of
the City were employed on the construction project in furtherance of
the Construction Contract.
(d) No Contractor shall knowingly falsify any required reports,
statements or payroll certifications.
Any Contractor who knowingly falsifies reports, statements or the certification of payroll data Is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and subject to a fine of not more
than five thousand dollars ($5,000).
If a Contractor is convicted under
this division, that Contractor shall
be barred from contracting with the
City on any construction project subject to this Chapter for a period of
five (5) years.
(e) Any retainage to cover contract performance that may become
due to the Contractor pursuant to
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland may be withheld by the
City pending the determination by
the Director of whether the Contractor must pay a penalty.
(f) The imposition of any penalty
or fine under this section shall not
preclude the City from exercising
any other rights or remedies to
which it is entitled.
(g) All funds collected by the City
of Cleveland under division (b) or
(c) of this section shall be deposited into a special account which
shall be created for the sole purpose
of receiving said funds. The funds
deposited into this account shall be
used for the operation of the Office
of Equal Opportunity provided such
funds have been appropriated for
that purpose, provided there is any
necessary legislative authority and
provided the funds are used in compliance with all laws or restrictions
regarding their use.
(h) No person shall knowingly
supply false information to establish
that the person is a Resident for
purposes of this Chapter. Any person who knowingly supplies false
information to establish that he or
she is a Resident is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Upon
conviction, such person shall be
barred from employment in furtherance of a Construction Contract for
a period of five (5) years.
Section 2. That existing Section
188.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 2031-A-02, passed June
10, 2003, is repealed.

The City Record
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

Ord. No. 77-08.
By Mayor Jackson, Council Members Lewis, Cleveland and Sweeney.
An ordinance to amend Section
123.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed
June 15, 1992, relating to the Office
of Equal Opportunity; to supplement
the codified ordinances by enacting
new Sections 187.01 to 187.29 relating to the Cleveland Area Business
Code; and to repeal existing Sections
187.01 to 187.16 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted or amended by various ordinances.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has a compelling interest in maintaining and advancing the public
welfare by assuring that its public
expenditures promote the financial
growth and stability of area small
businesses without discrimination
as to ownership; and
Whereas, as one of the poorest
large cities in America, Cleveland
needs to support and stimulate its
economy by spending its procurement dollars, to the extent possible,
in Cleveland area small businesses;
and
Whereas, the growth and stability
of Cleveland area small businesses
directly results in the preservation
and creation of jobs for Clevelanders; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
endeavors to increase economic opportunity for Cleveland-area small,
minority-, and female-owned businesses as one means to enhance the
well-being of the citizens of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
through the Mayor’s Office of Equal
Opportunity, is organized and able
to provide technical assistance to
small, minority-, and female-owned
enterprises; and
Whereas, absent discrimination,
over time, an employer’s workforce
profile generally will reflect the
gender, racial, ethnic, and other
demographic characteristics of the
available workforce of its environs;
and
Whereas, requiring City contractors whose workforce profiles, over
time, do not reflect the demographic characteristics of the available
workforce in the Cleveland area to
prepare and implement an affirmative action plan will assure that
Cleveland’s procurement dollars do
not serve to finance private prejudice or discrimination; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, effective one hundred and twenty (120) days after

275

25
the passage date of this ordinance,
Section 123.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1186-92,
passed June 15, 1992, is amended to
read as follows:
Section 123.08
Office of Equal
Opportunity
(a) There is established in the
Office of the Mayor, the Office of
Equal Opportunity to be administered and controlled by an Executive Assistant to the Mayor appointed by the Mayor to be the Director
of Equal Opportunity. The Director
shall appoint, under the civil service
provisions of the Charter, employees
required to perform the duties of the
office, and shall be responsible for
their supervision.
(b) According to the City’s desire
to encourage equal employment opportunity of minorities and women
by contractors, and to promote use
in all City Contracts, as defined in
Section 187.01, of minority business
enterprises (MBEs), female business
enterprises (FBEs) and Cleveland
Area Small Businesses (CSBs), all
as defined in Section 187.01, when
appropriate under Chapter 187 (collectively, the “Targeted Businesses”), the Director of Equal Opportunity shall:
(1) Supervise, coordinate, monitor,
and enforce for all City contracts
affirmative action programs and the
CSB, MBE and FBE programs in the
manner described in Chapter 187.
(2) Supervise, coordinate, monitor,
and enforce for all City contracts,
compliance with the City's equal
employment
opportunity
requirements, including but not limited to procedures, affirmative action
programs, employment goals, and
other means to implement CSB, MBE
and FBE participation goals, when
and as specifically applicable, in the
manner described in Chapter 187. All
compliance functions of the various
contracting departments shall be
performed in or under the direction
of the Office of Equal Opportunity.
The Director of Equal Opportunity
shall be responsible for securing
compliance by all contractors and
subcontractors with the provisions
of Chapter 187, as appropriate, and
any implementing rules or regulations. Contracting departments shall
comply with the provisions of Chapter 187 and any implementing rules
or regulations of the Director of
Equal
Opportunity.
Contracting
departments shall cooperate with
the Director of Equal Opportunity
and shall furnish such information
and assistance as the Director of
Equal Opportunity may require.
(3) Provide appropriate management,
technical
assistance,
and
information to and programs for
Targeted Businesses to maximize
their participation in City contracts,
with the assistance to include:
A. Providing assistance with the
establishment, expansion, and overall development of Targeted Businesses;
B. Assisting in the arrangement of
business associations among individuals, the Targeted Businesses,
and other businesses; and
C. Planning and participating in
training seminars to inform potential bidders of applicable programs,

The City Record

26
and business opportunities available.
(4) Serve as liaison with economic development organizations and
agencies which support the development of Targeted Businesses
in the community.
(5) Coordinate any City-sponsored
economic development programs for
Targeted Businesses.
(6) Promulgate, and revise as
necessary, regulations implementing the Cleveland Area Business
Program under Chapter 187.
(c) It shall also be the duty of the
Director of Equal Opportunity to
ensure that the City’s contractors
comply with applicable prevailing
wage laws.
(d) By February 15 of each year,
the Mayor shall file the following
written reports with the Clerk of
Council, and a copy shall be provided to each member of the Council:
(1) A report stating, for each City
department and for the City as a
whole, the percentage and total
value of contracts and subcontracts
performed by CSBs, MBEs and FBEs
during the preceding year.
(2) Such other information related
to the Cleveland Area Business Program under Chapter 187 as may be
useful in evaluating the success of
the program.
Section 2. That, effective one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the passage date of this ordinance,
existing Section 123.08 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No.
1186-92, passed June 15, 1992, is repealed.
Section 3. That, effective one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the passage date of this ordinance,
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are amended by
enacting new Sections 187.01 to
187.29 to read as follows:
CHAPTER 187
THE CLEVELAND AREA
BUSINESS CODE
Section 187.01 Definitions of Terms
As used in this Chapter, the following words, phrases, and terms
shall be defined as set forth below:
(a) “Administrator” means the
employee or employees in the OEO
designated by the Director to act as
an administrator of the Cleveland
Area Business Program.
(b) “Bidder” means a Person offering to contract with the City in
response to an invitation to bid, and
for purposes of this Code, includes
a proposer in response to a request
for proposals or other similar solicitation.
(c) “Bid Discount” means the
application of a percentage discount
to the total amount of a bid submitted by a Bidder for a Contract
solely for the purpose of bid comparisons when evaluating the lowest
and best bid, or lowest responsible
bid. The use of a Bid Discount for
Bid Comparison does not alter the
total amount of the bid submitted by
a Bidder or the Contract executed
based on a bid.
(d) “Business Enterprise” means a
firm, sole proprietorship, partnership, association, corporation, company, or other business entity of any

kind including, but not limited to, a
limited liability corporation, incorporated
professional
association,
joint venture, estate, or trust.
(e) “City” means the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
(f) “City of Cleveland Small Business” or “CCSB” means a CSB that
has its principal office located physically within the municipal boundaries of the City.
(g) “Cleveland Area Business Code”,
“Cleveland Area Business Program”,
“Code” or “Chapter” means all of the
provisions of this Chapter 187 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
(h) “Cleveland Area Small Business” or “CSB” means a Business
Enterprise certified under division
(a) of Section 187.03.
(i) “Cleveland Contracting Market” or “Contracting Market” means
the geographic market area consisting of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, or
the geographic market area identified in a disparity study or otherwise as provided in Section 187.28.
(j) “Commercially Useful Function” means execution by a CSB,
MBE, or FBE of a distinct element
of the work in carrying out its
responsibilities by actually performing, managing, and supervising the
work involved by its personnel,
materials, and assets. To determine
whether a Business Enterprise is
performing a Commercially Useful
Function, the City will evaluate the
amount of the Contractor’s work
which is appropriate to be subcontracted and actually subcontracted,
industry practices, and other relevant factors tending to demonstrate
actual performance.
(k) “Construction” means the erection, rehabilitation, alteration, conversion, extension, demolition or repair
of improvements to real property,
including facilities providing utility
service and includes the supervision,
inspection, and other on-site functions incidental to construction.
(l) “Contract” means a binding
agreement executed on or after the
effective date of this Cleveland Area
Business Code by which the City
either grants a privilege or is committed to expend or does expend its
funds or other resources, or confers
a benefit having monetary value
including, but not limited to, a
grant, loan, interest in real or personal property, or tax incentive in
any form for or in connection with
any work, project, or public purpose
including, but not limited to, a contract for the:
(1) Construction of any public
improvement, including change orders
or subsidiary agreements approved
by the City during the performance
of such Construction;
(2) Purchase of personal property;
(3) Purchase of any supplies, equipment or services;
(4) Lease by way of concession
under Section 183.03;
(5) Lease of any personal property;
or
(6) Grant by concession agreement
of a specific permission, privilege,
or license under Sections 183.04,
183.041, and 184.044 of the Codified
Ordinances.
“Contract” shall include a binding
agreement, funded or benefited by
the City, between a party to a Con-

276

February 13, 2008
tract and a third party, but shall
exclude contracts with other public
entities, except as provided in Section 187.09. For purposes of MBE
and
FBE
utilization,
“Contract”
shall only include the specific types
and categories of Contracts and Contractors identified in a disparity
study or otherwise as the subject of
past or present discrimination as
provided in Section 187.28.
(m) “Contracting Department” includes any administrative department under charge of the Mayor or
any office, board, or commission
treated or construed as a department of City government for any
purpose under the Charter or ordinances of the City for the benefit or
program of which the City enters
into a particular Contract.
(n) “Contractor” means a separate
or distinguishable Business Enterprise employing one or more persons
and participating in the performance of a Contract, including but
not limited to CSBs, MBEs and
FBEs where applicable, and shall
include a party in privity with a
Contractor for implementation of a
Contract.
(o) “Control” means the unencumbered ability to direct operations
and management.
(p) “Director” means the Director
of the Office of Equal Opportunity.
(q) “Disability” means any physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of an
individual’s major life activities.
(r) “Discriminate” means to exclude an individual or group solely
on the basis of race, religion, color,
sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, Disability, ethnic group or
Vietnam-era or disabled-veteran status.
(s) “Discriminate on the basis of
age” means to Discriminate as determined by appropriate Federal
law against individuals over the age
of forty (40).
(t) “Evaluation Credit” means a
predetermined number of points in
the evaluation of proposals submitted by a Bidder for a Contract to be
added solely for the purpose of proposal comparison when evaluating
competing proposals. The use of
Evaluation Credits does not alter
the amount of the proposal submitted by a Bidder or the Contract executed based on the proposal.
(u) “Female” includes only a United States citizen or lawful, permanent resident who is a member of
the female gender.
(v) “Female Business Enterprise”
or “FBE” means a Business Enterprise owned, operated, and controlled by one or more Females who
have 51% ownership. The one or
more Females must have operational and managerial Control, interest in capital, and earnings commensurate with the percentage of
Female ownership. To qualify as a
Female Business Enterprise, the
Business Enterprise shall be located
and doing business in the Cleveland
Contracting Market.
(w) “Front Organization” means
any FBE, MBE, or CSB that serves
as a Contractor, or as a subcontractor to any Contractor under Contract, who obtained and/or retained
certification through false statements or who committed to perfor-

February 13, 2008
mance of a distinct element of the
work under the Contract but did not
carry out its responsibilities by actually performing, managing or supervising the work involved, or who
did not provide products, services,
goods or supplies in a manner, in
the Director’s determination, consistent with its certification.
(x) “Joint venture” means an association of two or more persons or
businesses to carry out a single
business enterprise for profit for
which purpose they combine their
property, capital, efforts, skills and
knowledge.
(y) “Minority Person” means a
United States citizen or lawful, permanent resident who is a member of
a racial or ethnic group, such as
African American, Hispanic American, Asian American or Native
American, against whom past or present discrimination has been demonstrated as provided in Section 187.28.
(z) “Minority Business Enterprise”
or “MBE” means a Business Enterprise owned, operated and controlled
by one or more Minority Persons
who have at least 51% ownership.
The Minority Person(s) must have
operational and managerial Control,
interest in capital, and earnings
commensurate with the percentage
of ownership. To qualify as a Minority Business Enterprise, the enterprise shall be located and doing
business in the Cleveland Contracting Market.
(aa) “OEO” means the Office of
Equal Opportunity of the City of
Cleveland.
(bb) “Person” means and includes
a natural person, a Business Enterprise or other entity, unless the context or usage requires otherwise.
(cc) “Public Improvement” means
a project determined by the City
Council to be a public improvement
under Section 167 of the Cleveland
City Charter.
(dd) “Regional Cleveland Area
Small Business” or “RCSB” means a
CSB that has its principal office
located physically within the territorial boundaries of Cuyahoga County but outside the municipal boundaries of the City.
(ee) “Regulation” or “Regulations”
means and includes the regulations
implementing this Code and promulgated by the Director of Equal
Opportunity under division (b)(6) of
Section 123.08 of these Codified Ordinances.
(ff) “Small Business Enterprise”
or “SBE” means a Business Enterprise that meets the established economic criteria for a SBE and is
owned, operated and controlled by
one or more persons who meet the
economic criteria for SBE ownership
established by the Director in the
Regulations.
(gg) “Supplier” means a Business
Enterprise performing a Commercially Useful Function in the supply
process when it:
(1) Assumes the actual and contractual responsibility for furnishing the supplies or materials;
(2) Is recognized as a distributor
of the contracted supplies and materials by the industry involved;
(3) Owns or leases a warehouse,
yard, building or other facilities for
stocking inventory or otherwise conducts business in a manner which is

The City Record
usual and customary in the industry
and market for the supplies or materials; and
(4) Distributes, delivers, and services products primarily with its
own staff and/or equipment.
Section 187.02 Duties of Director
of Office of Equal Opportunity
In addition to those duties specified in Section 123.08, the Director,
through the Administrator and other
employees as necessary, shall implement and enforce this Code under
its provisions. The Director’s duties
shall include, but not be limited to:
(a) Reviewing all submittals and
other information required under
this Code to determine whether a
particular Contractor has been certified or approved:
(1) With respect to the affirmative action programs established
under divisions (b) and (c) of Section 187.15;
(2) As a CSB, CCSB or RCSB;
(3) As a bona fide CSB, MBE, or
FBE Joint Venture;
(4) As a Minority Business Enterprise;
(5) As a Female Business Enterprise;
(6) As having submitted a responsive bid with respect to OEO required submittals; or
(7) As being in compliance with
this Code and its regulations.
(b) Notifying an affected Contracting Department that the certificates or statements pertaining to
particular Contractors are or are not
currently effective with respect to
the matters for which the same were
issued;
(c) Monitoring the general performance, workforce, and subcontracting
practices
of
Contractors
to
ensure continued compliance with
this Code;
(d) Initiating and receiving complaints of non-compliance with this
Code;
(e) Investigating complaints pertaining to non-compliance with this
Code and recommending appropriate
sanctions; and
(f) Implementing the hearing procedures provided in Sections 187.18
and 187.20.
Section 187.03
Certification of
Cleveland Area Small Businesses;
Application of Bid Discounts for Bid
Comparison
(a) A Business Enterprise is eligible for certification as a Cleveland
Area Small Business if:
(1) it is a Small Business Enterprise;
(2) it has its principal office located physically in the Cleveland Contracting Market; and
(3) its chief executive officer and
highest level managers maintain
their offices and perform their managerial functions in the Cleveland
Contracting Market.
(b) Subject to the limitation contained in division (g) of Section
187.05, Contracting Departments may
apply a Bid Discount in the following amounts for bids received from
CSB prime contractors:
(1) A Bid Discount of five percent
(5%) for bids received from CCSBs.
(2) A Bid Discount of five percent
(5%) for bids received from RCSBs,
provided no bids are received from
CCSB’s.

277

27
(c) Subject to the limitation contained in division (g) of Section
187.05, Contracting Departments may
apply Evaluation Credits as follows
for proposals received from CSB
prime contractors:
(1) An Evaluation Credit of five
percent (5%) of the total points
awarded for proposals received from
CCSBs.
(2) An Evaluation Credit of five
percent (5%) of the total points
awarded for proposals received from
RCSBs, provided no proposals are
received from CCSBs.
(d) Subject to the limitation contained in division (g) of Section
187.05, Contracting Departments may
apply a Bid Discount to bids received for a Public Improvement
Contract from a Business Enterprise
in the amount of five percent (5%)
of the portion of the total amount of
labor and materials that the Bidder
represents it will subcontract to one
or more CSBs.
(1) If a Contracting Department
applies the Bid Discount under division (d) of this section to the bid of
a Bidder that would not have otherwise been the lowest and the Bidder is awarded the Public Improvement Contract, the City shall retain
as Additional Retainage an amount
equal to the total dollar amount by
which the bid was adjusted for bid
comparison in addition to the retainage
required
under
Section
185.41 of the Codified Ordinances.
(2) If a Contractor uses CSB subcontractors in the performance of
the Public Improvement Contract in
an amount equal to or greater than
offered in the Contractor’s bid, the
City shall pay the Contractor any
Additional Retainage retained under
division (d)(1) of this section upon
the Contracting Department director’s acceptance of the contract
work under division (d) of Section
185.41. If a Contractor uses CSB subcontractors in the performance of a
Public Improvement Contract in an
amount less than represented in its
bid, the Contractor shall forfeit the
amount of the Additional Retainage
equal to the amount of shortfall in
its CSB usage, in addition to any
other sanctions or penalties applicable under this Chapter or the Contract.
(3) If a Contracting Department
applies the Bid Discount under division (d) of this section to the bid of
a Bidder that would not have otherwise been the lowest and the Bidder is awarded the Public Improvement Contract, the Contract terms
shall prohibit the Contractor from
deducting the amount of the Additional
Retainage
from
progress
payments to the CSB subcontractors.
(e) The maximum cumulative dollar amount of all Bid Discounts to
a Bidder for a bid under divisions
(b) and (d) of this section shall not
exceed $50,000.00.
(f) Certificates issued under this
section shall be valid for the period
specified by the Director in the Regulations. Certification as a CSB is
independent from certification as a
MBE or FBE.
(g) By fifteen days after the close
of each calendar quarter, the Director shall publish a list of all CSBs
certified during the preceding quarter, including the type(s) of work

28
that each is certified to perform,
and a list of all Business Enterprises that have lost their certification as a CSB during the preceding
quarter,
including
whether
an
appeal of the denial of certification
is pending. Concurrently, the Director shall furnish to the Council the
name of any Business Enterprise to
which OEO has denied certification
as a CSB during the preceding quarter, including whether an appeal of
the denial is pending. Publication of
the CSB’s name shall not be a prerequisite
for
eligibility
for
the
award of a Contract.
Section 187.04 CSB Goals of Contracting Departments
(a) Consistent with the City’s goal
of increasing the level of CSB participation in Contracts, each Contracting Department shall use its
best efforts to utilize CSBs as Contractors and subcontractors for all
contracts in excess of $10,000. The
annual City-wide goal for CSB participation in Public Improvement
Contracts shall be thirty percent
(30%), in professional services Contracts shall be ten percent (10%),
and in all other Contracts shall be
twenty percent (20%) or such other
goal fixed by the Director for a particular Contract.
(b) To meet the goals fixed under
division (a) of this section, Contracting Departments, in consultation with the Director, shall consider use of Bid Discounts under division (b) and (d) of Section 187.03
when recommending a bid as lowest
and best or lowest responsible or
recommending a proposal as best.
Each Contracting Department shall
be responsible for ensuring that
invitations to bid or requests for
proposal issued by or for that
department comply with all provisions and procedures set forth in
this Chapter.
(c) In determining the CSB participation that shall be applied
toward meeting the goals fixed
under division (a) of this section,
the Director shall credit:
(1) Expenditures to CSBs that perform Commercially Useful Functions
in implementation or performance of
a Contract;
(2) Expenditures to CSB manufacturers (i.e. Suppliers that produce
goods from raw materials or the
product of raw materials and add
value by substantially altering them
before resale);
(3) Sixty percent (60%) of expenditures to CSB Suppliers that are not
manufacturers, provided that the
CSB Supplier performs a Commercially Useful Function in the supply
process;
(4) Should a CSB subcontractor
further subcontract its participation
in a Contract to a non-CSB subcontractor, only the work or supplies
actually performed or furnished by
the CSB subcontractor shall be
applied towards meeting the goals
fixed under division (a) of this section;
(5) No credit shall apply for a
Contractor’s or a subcontractor’s
contract(s) for the purchase of
materials, equipment, services, or
supplies that are incident to the performance of services under the Contract or for the general operation of

The City Record
its business and not attributable
exclusively to the particular subcontract; and
(6) A percentage of the total dollar value of the Contract with a CSB
Joint Venture equal to the percentage of CSB participation in the Joint
Venture shall be counted towards
meeting the goals fixed under division (a) of this section. If the CSB
is responsible for performance of a
clearly defined portion of the work
to be performed, equal in proportion
to its share in the ownership, control,
management,
responsibility,
risk, and profits of the Joint Venture.
(d) To fulfill the purposes of the
goals fixed under division (a) of
this section, Contractors shall use
CSBs to perform a Commercially
Useful Function during the implementation or performance of the
Contract. Failure to do so will be a
material breach of the Contract, and
may subject the Contractor to criminal prosecution, decertification, and
other sanctions.
(e) The Director shall not apply
credit toward the CSB subcontractor
participation goals fixed in division
(a) of this section for participation
under any Contract in a calendar
year by any CSB subcontractor that
has contracted under a City contract
more than a maximum annual dollar amount per year fixed by the
Director in the Regulations from
time to time, except that the Director may apply credit toward the CSB
subcontractor
participation
goals
upon written request of a Bidder or
Contractor attesting that no other
certified CSBs are available to perform the work or supply the materials required for the Contract under
which the CSB is a subcontractor, or
in an emergency, or for such other
reasons that the Director determines
require use of that CSB. Nothing in
the foregoing shall be deemed to
prohibit a Contractor from subcontracting to that CSB, or that CSB
from performing work or supplying
materials under any Contract without participation credit.
Section 187.05
Certification of
Minority Business Enterprises and
Female Business Enterprises.
(a) A Business Enterprise is eligible for certification as a Minority
Business Enterprise if:
(1) the Business Enterprise is
owned, operated and controlled by
one or more Minority Persons who
have at least 51% ownership;
(2) the Minority Persons who own
the Business Enterprise have operational and managerial control, interest in capital, and earnings commensurate with the percentage of
ownership; and
(3) the Business Enterprise is
located and doing business in the
Cleveland Contracting Market.
(b) A Business Enterprise is eligible for certification as a Female
Business Enterprise if:
(1) the Business Enterprise is
owned, operated and controlled by
one or more Females who have at
least 51% ownership;
(2) the Female owners have operational
and
managerial
control,
interest in capital, and earnings
commensurate with the percentage
of ownership; and

278

February 13, 2008
(3) the Business Enterprise is
located and doing business in the
Cleveland Contracting Market.
(c) Contracting Departments may
apply a Bid Discount of five percent
(5%) for bids received from certified MBE and FBE prime contractors, as the Regulations provide to
remediate past or present discrimination as provided in Section 187.28.
(d) Contracting Departments may
apply an Evaluation Credit of five
percent (5%) of the total points
awarded for proposals received from
MBE and FBE prime contractors, as
the Regulations provide to remediate past or present discrimination as
provided in Section 187.28.
(e) Contracting Departments may
apply a Bid Discount for bids
received for a Public Improvement
Contract from a Business Enterprise
in the amount of five percent (5%)
of the portion of the total amount of
the goods, labor, and materials that
the Bidder represents it will subcontract to one or more MBEs and
FBEs.
(1) If a Contracting Department
applies the Bid Discount under division (d) of this section to the bid of
a Bidder that would not have otherwise been the lowest and the Bidder is awarded the Public Improvement Contract, the City shall retain
as Additional Retainage an amount
equal to the total dollar amount by
which the bid was adjusted for bid
comparison
in
addition
to
the
retainage required under Section
185.41 of the Codified Ordinances.
(2) If a Contractor uses MBE and
FBE subcontractors in the performance of a Public Improvement Contract in an amount equal to or
greater than offered in the Contractor’s bid, the City shall pay the Contractor any Additional Retainage
retained under division (e)(1) of
this section upon the Contracting
Department director’s acceptance of
the contract work under division (d)
of Section 185.41. If a Contractor
uses MBE and FBE subcontractors
in the performance of a Public
Improvement Contract in an amount
less than represented in its bid, the
Contractor shall forfeit the amount
of Additional Retainage equal to the
amount of shortfall in its total MBE
and FBE usage, in addition to any
other sanctions or penalties applicable under this Chapter or the Contract.
(3) If a Contracting Department
applies the Bid Discount under division (e) of this section to a bid that
would not have otherwise been the
lowest and the Bidder is awarded
the Public Improvement Contract,
the Contract terms shall prohibit the
Contractor
from
deducting
the
amount of the Additional Retainage
from progress payments to the MBE
and FBE subcontractors.
(f) The maximum cumulative dollar amount of all Bid Discounts to
a Bidder for a bid under divisions
(c) and (e) of this section shall not
exceed $50,000.00.
(g) If a Contracting Department
applies a Bid Discount under divisions (c) or (e) of this section to
one or more bids for the award of a
Contract, no Bid Discounts may be
applied under divisions (b) or (d) of
Section 187.03 to any bid under
review for the award of that Con-

February 13, 2008
tract. If a Contracting Department
applies an Evaluation Credit under
division (d) of this section to one or
more proposals for the award of a
Contract, no Evaluation Credits may
be applied under division (c) of Section 187.03 to any proposal under
review for the award of that Contract.
(h) Certificates issued under this
section shall be valid for the period
specified by the Director in the Regulations.
(i) By 15 days after the close of
each calendar quarter, the Director
shall publish a list of all MBEs and
FBEs certified during the preceding
quarter, including the type(s) of
work that each is certified to perform, and a list of all Business
Enterprises that have lost their certification as an MBE or FBE during
the preceding quarter, including
whether an appeal of the denial of
certification is pending. Concurrently, the Director shall furnish to the
Council the name of any Business
Enterprise to which OEO has denied
certification as an MBE or FBE during the preceding quarter, including
whether an appeal of the denial is
pending. Publication of the MBE’s
or FBE’s name shall not be a prerequisite
for
eligibility
for
the
award of a Contract.
Section 187.06 MBE/FBE Goals of
Contracting Departments
(a) Consistent with the City’s goal
of increasing the level of MBE and
FBE participation in City Contracts
when past or present discrimination
against such type of MBEs or FBEs
or category of contract has been evidenced as provided in Section 187.28,
each Contracting Department shall
use its best efforts to utilize certified MBEs and FBEs as Contractors
or subcontractors for all contracts in
excess of $10,000 where applicable.
The Director may determine the
appropriate annual City-wide goal
for MBE and FBE participation for
each type of Contract, including, but
not limited to, Construction, non-professional and professional services,
supplies, and concessions, and for
each type of work to be performed
under a particular Contract, based
on the availability of certified MBEs
and FBEs as to which past or present discrimination has been demonstrated as provided in Section 187.28.
The Director shall cause the goals
to be published in the Regulations.
The Director shall fix the goals
for MBE and FBE participation in a
particular Contract in consultation
with the Contracting Department
based upon the annual City-wide
goals for each type of Contract and
for each type of work to be performed in the Contract and the
availability of certified MBEs and
FBEs. The Director may fix the
goals for a particular Contract at a
level exceeding the annual Citywide goals to assist a Contracting
Department in meeting the annual
City-wide goal for the particular
type of Contract to be awarded.
(b) Contracting Departments shall
consider use of certified MBEs and
FBEs when recommending a lowest
and best or lowest responsible bid
to meet the specified annual goals
and may apply a Bid Discount for
Bid Comparison under division (c)

The City Record
of Section 187.05. However, these
goals are not intended as quotas.
Each Contracting Department shall
ensure that bids or proposals emanating from that department comply
with the procedures and provisions
in this Chapter and the Regulations.
(c) In evaluating the MBE and
FBE participation that shall apply
toward a Contracting Department’s
annual goals, the Director shall
credit:
(1) Expenditures to certified MBEs
and FBEs that perform Commercially Useful Functions in implementation or performance of a Contract;
(2) Expenditures to certified MBE
and FBE manufacturers (i.e. Suppliers that produce goods from raw
materials or the product of raw
materials and add value by substantially altering them before resale);
(3) Sixty percent (60%) of expenditures to certified MBE and FBE
Suppliers that are not manufacturers, provided that the MBE and FBE
Supplier performs a Commercially
Useful
Function
in
the
supply
process;
(4) Should a MBE or FBE subcontractor further subcontract its
participation in a Contract to a nonMBE or non-FBE only the work
actually performed by the MBE or
FBE
subcontractor
shall
apply
towards the Contracting Department’s annual MBE or FBE participation goals;
(5) No credit shall apply to a Contractor’s or a subcontractor’s contract(s) for the purchase of materials, equipment, services, or supplies
that are incident to the performance
of services under the Contract or for
the general operation of its business
and not attributable exclusively to
the particular subcontract;
(6) A Contractor or subcontractor
that qualifies as both a MBE and
FBE may obtain certification as
both a MBE and FBE. The total dollar value of a particular Contract
with such Contractor or subcontractor may count only toward the MBE
or FBE goal, but not toward both.
The Contractor must choose the category to which the Contract value
should be applied; and
(7) A portion of the total dollar
value of the Contract with a CSB,
MBE, or FBE Joint Venture equal to
the percentage of certified CSB,
MBE, or FBE participation in the
Joint Venture may count toward
meeting MBE and FBE goals. The
CSB, MBE, or FBE must be responsible for performance of a clearly
defined, distinct portion of the Contract work of equal proportion to its
share in the ownership, control,
management,
responsibility,
risk,
and profits of the Joint Venture.
(d) To fulfill the purposes of the
MBE and FBE goals, Contractors
shall use MBEs and FBEs to perform a Commercially Useful Function in implementation or performance of the Contract. Failure to do
so will not only be considered a
material breach of the Contract, but
may also subject the Contractor to
criminal prosecution for fraudulent
misrepresentation,
decertification,
and to other sanctions.
(e) The Director shall not apply
credit toward the MBE and FBE

279

29
subcontractor
participation
goals
fixed under division (a) of this section for participation under any Contract in a calendar year by any one
MBE or FBE subcontractor that has
contracted under a City contract
more than a maximum annual dollar amount per MBE or FBE per
year fixed by the Director in the
Regulations from time to time,
except that the Director may apply
credit toward the MBE or FBE subcontractor participation goals upon
written request of a Bidder or Contractor attesting that no other certified MBEs or FBEs are available to
perform the work or supply the
materials required for the Contract
under which the MBE or FBE is a
subcontractor, or in an emergency,
or for such other reasons that the
Director determines require use of
that MBE or FBE. Nothing in the
foregoing shall be deemed to prohibit a Contractor from subcontracting to that MBE or FBE, or that
MBE or FBE from performing work
or supplying materials under any
Contract without participation credit.
(f) This section shall apply, as
remedial action, only to the specified types and categories of Contracts and the contracting for those
types and categories of Contracts,
for which the City has developed or
obtained, by disparity study or otherwise, a legally sufficient basis in
evidence to demonstrate past or present discrimination as to participation of Minority Persons, Females,
MBEs, or FBEs.
Section 187.07
Certification as a
Contract Prerequisite; Certification
Process
(a) Each Bidder must hold a valid
certificate of employment compliance for the equal employment of
minorities and women in the contractor’s workforce, as described in
division (b) of Section 187.16, unless
the Mayor has waived such compliance.
(b) Each Bidder whose bid includes participation by CSBs, MBEs,
or FBEs must demonstrate that the
Bidder:
(1) Has reached a specific written
agreement with each participating
CSB, MBE, or FBE subcontractor;
(2) Has accurately and fully represented the essence of their agreement in the bid documents; and
(3) Is using CSBs, MBEs, or FBEs
in a way which complies with this
Code and the Regulations.
If the Administrator has made a
finding of noncompliance by a Bidder under division (f)(3) of Section
187.17 and the Bidder disputes the
finding, the City may reject the bid
until such dispute is resolved.
(c) CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs must
be certified under division (d) of
this section. Contractors seeking to
use certified CSBs, MBEs, or FBEs
shall ensure that all forms and
related materials required for certification are submitted to the Director in a timely fashion.
(d) The Administrator may issue
a certificate of employment compliance under division (a) of this section, or a certificate for the following:
(1) Bona fide status as CSB, MBE,
or FBE; and

30
(2) Bona fide status as a CSB,
MBE, or FBE Joint Venture.
Any certification under this section with regard to a professional
service Contractor under a Contract
entered into by the Director of Law
may be deferred at the discretion of
the Director of Law but shall occur
prior
to
making
final
payment
under the Contract.
Section 187.08
Good-Faith Effort
of Bidders and Contract Provisions
(a) Each Bidder for a Contract
shall make a good-faith effort to utilize certified CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs
in a percentage that equals or
exceeds the applicable goal.
(b) The City and each Contracting Department in soliciting bids
and approving, awarding, and administering a Contract exceeding or
reasonably anticipated to exceed the
Contract amount above which Charter Section 108 requires ordinance
authority shall comply with the following requirements:
(1) Each Bid invitation, request
for proposals and other solicitation
for a Contract shall require each
Bidder to complete and submit with
its bid or proposal the representations, documentation, and schedules
the Director specifies for the Bidder
to identify its efforts to utilize
CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs in a percentage that equals or exceeds the
applicable goal. The Bidder shall
keep such records of its efforts as
the Director specifies are adequate
to permit determination of a successful Bidder’s compliance with
this section.
(2) If a bid invitation or request
for proposals contains alternates,
the percentage of CSB, MBE and
FBE participation in the prospective
Contract will be computed upon the
total dollar amount of the Contract
as awarded, including the cost of
alternates
the
Contracting
Department recommends for award.
(3) If a Bidder is unable to
achieve the goal for CSB utilization
or MBE and FBE utilization for a
particular Contract, the Bidder may
request an exception to the goal
under division (a) of Section 187.13.
(4) Prior to execution of a Contract, a Bidder shall submit to the
City such additional documents as
the Director may specify to identify
the particular CSBs, MBEs, FBEs
and other subcontractors it will use
under the Contract, and to specify
the dollar and percentage value of
each subcontractor’s participation,
the type of work or services to be
performed, and such other information as the Director may reasonably
require to determine whether the
Bidder meets the applicable CSB,
MBE, and FBE participation goals.
(c) All Contracts shall require the
Contractor to:
(1) Use certified CSBs, MBEs, and
FBEs in performing the Contract
according to the participation identified in its bid or proposal, subject
only to any substitution and waiver
granted under division (b) of Section 187.08.
(2) Make a good-faith effort to
maintain and increase the use of
CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs during performance of the Contract.
(3) Maintain such records as the
Director requires that demonstrate

The City Record
compliance with this Chapter’s and
the Contract’s requirements relating
to CSB, MBE, and FBE participation.
(4) Comply with all provisions of
this Chapter. Any failure of the Contractor or any subcontractor to comply with applicable provisions of
this Chapter shall constitute a material breach.
(5)
Whenever
a
Contract
is
amended or modified, any change
order is issued, or subsidiary agreement is authorized increasing the
total original Contract cost by more
than 10%, comply with this Chapter
regarding the work, services, or supplies to be paid for through such
amendment,
modification,
change
order, or subsidiary agreement to
ensure that it maintains the same
percentage of CSB, MBE, and FBE
participation identified in its bid or
proposal in performing the additional work, services, or supplies.
(d) To be considered lowest and
best or lowest responsible, a Bidder
shall disclose with its bid or proposal such information as the Director requires in the Regulations to
demonstrate the extent to which, in
contracts not within the purview of
this Chapter, the Bidder has awarded subcontracts to CSBs, MBEs, and
FBEs.
Section 187.09
Contracts with
Other Governmental Entities as Contractors
Contracts or other agreements between the City and other political subdivisions, governmental, or quasi-governmental agencies, under which entities receive money from or through
the City for the purpose of contracting with Business Enterprises
to perform projects in the City, shall
encourage Business Enterprises to
comply with the provisions of this
Chapter in awarding, administering,
and implementing the contracts.
Section 187.10 CSB Joint Ventures
When a certified CSB Joint Venture participates in a Contract, the
CSB’s participation value will be
measured by first determining the
percentage of the CSB’s participation in the CSB Joint Venture, and
then multiplying that percentage by
the value of the CSB Joint Venture’s
participation in the Contract.
Section 187.11
MBE/FBE Joint
Ventures
Participation of MBEs and FBEs
in Joint Ventures is encouraged.
When a certified MBE or FBE Joint
Venture participates in a Contract to
which MBE and or FBE goals apply,
the MBE’s or FBE’s participation
value will be measured by first
determining the percentage of the
MBE’s or FBE’s participation in the
MBE or FBE Joint Venture, and
then multiplying that percentage by
the value of the MBE or FBE Joint
Venture’s participation in the Contract.
Section 187.12 Responsibilities of
Contracting Departments
The Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies and each Contracting
Department shall:
(a) Endeavor to maximize the
participation of CSBs, MBEs, and
FBEs in Contracts of $10,000 or less;

280

February 13, 2008
(b) Develop lists of CSBs, MBEs,
and FBEs experienced in the various types of services, products, or
property for which the City typically contracts;
(c) Report to the Director quarterly not later than 30 calendar days
after the end of the previous quarter specifying, with respect to Contracts and subcontracts:
(1) The means by which it intends
to meet goals established under this
Chapter in the forthcoming quarter;
(2) The percentage and dollar
amount of those Contracts and subcontracts awarded in the previous
quarter to CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs;
(3) For each Contracting Department, the degree to which it has met
goals set forth in this Chapter, any
past and current activities undertaken and being undertaken to meet
such goals and, if applicable, a
detailed explanation of why it has
not met the goals; and
(4)
Other
information
as
the
Director may request; and
(d) Appoint one or more members
of each Contracting Department to
serve as a liaison between the Contracting Department and the OEO,
and to nominate a member of the
contracting department or division
to serve on the Review and Evaluation Committee provided under Section 187.23.
Section 187.13 Exceptions, Substitutions and Waivers
(a) If a Bidder is unable to meet
the goals for a Contract established
under division (a) of Section 187.04
for CSBs or division (a) of Section
187.06 for MBEs and FBEs, it may
submit a request for exception to
the Director prior to bid opening.
The request for exception shall include such documentation as the
Director specifies in the Regulations
that demonstrates the Bidder’s goodfaith effort to use CSBs, MBEs, and
FBEs to achieve the applicable goal.
(b) If, after a Contract is awarded, a Contractor is unable to utilize
a CSB, MBE, or FBE identified in
the Contractor’s bid or proposal, it
shall make a good-faith effort to
identify and propose, and request
the Director’s approval of a substitute CSB, MBE, or FBE, respectively, to fulfill its utilization commitment. If, after good-faith effort, the
Contractor is unable to find a substitute, it may request the Director
to waive its utilization commitment.
The request must document, as the
Director prescribes in the Regulations, both the Contractor’s goodfaith effort to find a substitute and
the reasons it is unable to meet the
goal.
(c) A Contracting Department
may request the Director to waive
or reduce the goal for CSB, MBE,
and FBE participation in a particular Contract by submitting the reasons for the request in writing prior
to soliciting bids or proposals.
(1) The Director may grant a
waiver or reduction upon determination that:
A. The reasonable and necessary
requirements of the Contract preclude subcontracting or participation of Business Enterprises other
than the Bidder or proposer; or
B. Based upon documentation submitted to the Director, sufficient

February 13, 2008
CSBs, MBEs, and/or FBEs, certified,
qualified and capable of providing
the goods or services the Contract
requires are unavailable despite
every practicable attempt to locate
and utilize them.
(2) In any grant of a goal reduction, the Director shall specify the
percentage to which the goal is
reduced.
(3) Whenever the Director denies
a request to waive or reduce a goal,
the Contracting Department may
appeal that denial to the Mayor
whose decision on the request shall
be final.
(d) A Contracting Department
may waive or reduce the goal established under division (a) of Section
187.04 for CSBs or division (a) of
Section 187.06 for MBEs and FBEs
for a particular Contract under the
following circumstances:
(1) Whenever the director of a
Contracting Department finds, with
the advice of the Director, that the
goods or services are available only
from a sole source, and the prospective Contractor is not currently disqualified from doing business with
the City; and
(2) If the director of a Contracting Department certifies in writing
to the Director that:
A. an emergency exists which requires goods or services to be provided with such immediacy that it
is impracticable to comply with the
requirements of this Chapter; and
B. the prospective Contractor is a
CSB, MBE, or FBE, or if not, that
the prospective Contractor will make
a good-faith effort to subcontract to
CSBs, MBEs, and FBEs, as applicable, should subcontracting opportunities exist.
Section 187.14 Small Contract Rotation Program
(a) Provided that a disparity study
or otherwise establishes a legally
sufficient basis to employ a Small
Contract Rotation Program as a
remedy for past or present discrimination under Section 187.28, the
Director shall establish a Small Contract Rotation Program for MBEs
and FBEs, including procedures, applicable to the categories of construction, professional services and
purchase contracts where the cost of
the Contract is anticipated to be
under $10,000. The purposes of the
Small Contract Rotation Program
are to increase contract opportunities for categories of MBEs and
FBEs, that have been underutilized
at a statistically significant level in
Contracts under $10,000, to provide
an orderly and efficient method of
awarding purchases and work, and
to equitably distribute purchases
and work among qualified Contractors.
(b) Under the Small Contract
Rotation Program, the City shall
limit every second (2nd) contract to
be let by the City for each type of
contract, within a category where
MBEs and FBEs are underutilized
at a statistically significant level, to
competition among certified MBEs
and FBEs who submit an application in a form acceptable to the
Director. The Director shall compile
an approved list comprised of not
less than two certified MBEs and
FBEs for each industry and, as

The City Record
needed, compile specialized lists
within
industries.
The
eligible
businesses shall be alphabetically
ranked on each list and, for a thirty-day period commencing on January 1st and June 1st of each year,
the Director shall hold open enrollment for applicants. The lists of prequalified vendors shall be made
available to the public. The Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
shall solicit bids or proposals from
all MBEs or FBEs on the list for
each contract to be entered into
under the Small Contract Rotation
Program. When only one qualified
vendor is on the list, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
may purchase directly from that
firm by direct negotiation of the
purchase price.
Section 187.15 Employment; Nondiscrimination; Goals of Contractors
(a) No Contractor shall Discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of
race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, Disability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era
or disabled veteran status. Contractors shall take affirmative action to
ensure that applicants are employed
and that employees are treated during employment without regard to
race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, Disability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era
or disabled veteran status. As used
in this chapter, “treated” means and
includes without limitation the following: recruited whether by advertising or other means; compensated,
whether in the form of rates of pay
or other forms of compensation;
selected for training, including apprenticeship, promoted, upgraded,
demoted, transferred, laid off and
terminated. Contractors shall post in
conspicuous
places
available
to
employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided by
the hiring representative of contractors setting forth the provisions
of this nondiscrimination clause.
(b) Within 60 days after entering
into a Contract, each Contractor
shall have filed with the Director a
written affirmative action program,
approved by the Administrator, containing standards and procedures
ensuring that the Contractor, by
specified affirmative actions with
regard to its employees, facilities
and performance of the Contract,
affords all qualified employees and
applicants for employment equal
opportunities in the Contractor’s
recruitment, selection, and advancement processes.
(c) Each Contractor’s affirmative
action program shall contain the following components:
(1) A diagnostic component that
includes quantitative analyses comparing the composition of the Contractor’s workforce to the composition of the Cleveland Contracting
Market employment pool according
to the most current census data
available, grouped by EEO occupations.
(2) Each affirmative action program shall contain placement goals
as follows:
(i) for each non-construction Contract, placement goals equal to the
availability percentage for women

281

31
or minorities where the percentage
of women or minorities employed by
the Contractor in a particular job
group is less than would reasonably
be expected given their percentage
availabilities in the corresponding
Cleveland
Contracting
Market
employment pool. Placement goals
are objective targets reasonably
attainable by applying a good-faith
effort to implement all aspects of
the affirmative action program; they
are not inflexible quotas. Placement
goals do not authorize or require a
Contractor to grant a preference to
any individual or adversely affect
an individual’s employment status
for an unlawful discriminatory reason.
(ii) for each construction Contract, establish placement goals for
minorities and women for each trade
involved in the performance of the
Contract equal to the goals established by the Director. Placement
goals are objective targets reasonably attainable by applying a goodfaith effort to implement all aspects
of the affirmative action program;
they
are
not
inflexible
quotas.
Placement goals do not authorize or
require a Contractor to grant a preference to any individual or adversely affect an individual’s employment
status for an unlawful Discriminatory reason.
(3)
Identification
of
problem
areas through analysis of the Contractor’s
employment
process
to
determine if it affords or incorporates, or contains impediments to,
equal employment opportunities.
(4) Action-oriented programs consisting of practical steps the Contractor will implement to address
any identified problem areas or the
underutilization of women or minorities in relation to their availability
in the relevant labor pool.
(5) Internal auditing and reporting systems that monitor and examine the impact the Contractor’s
employment decisions and compensation systems have on women and
minorities and their progress toward
achieving a workforce that would
be expected in the absence of discrimination.
(6) Policies, practices, and procedures that the Contractor will implement to ensure that all qualified
applicants
and
employees
enjoy
equal opportunity in recruitment,
selection, advancement, and every
other term and privilege associated
with employment.
(7) Any additional requirements
the
Administrator
may
require
through the Regulations or on a
case-by-case review of a Contractor’s
proposed
affirmative
action
program.
Section 187.16
Compliance with
Employment Goals
(a) Each Contractor shall be eligible for a certificate of employment
compliance required under Section
187.07 when the Administrator, from
the required submittals and other
information supplied by the Contractor, determines that the Contractor is complying with this Code
and the Regulations.
(b) Each Contractor shall submit
to the Administrator and implement
a written affirmative action program containing the components

32
required under division (c) of Section 187.15. When the Administrator
is satisfied that the Contractor has
complied with the Code and its regulations, the Administrator shall
issue
a
written
“certificate
of
employment compliance.”
(c) Immediately upon a finding
that 60 days after entering into a
Contract, a Contractor has no affirmative action program, has deviated substantially from an approved
affirmative action program, or has
Discriminated against any employee
or
applicant
for
employment
because of race, religion, color, sex,
sexual orientation, national origin,
age, Disability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era or disabled veteran status,
the
Administrator
shall
proceed
according to division (f) of Section
187.17. Anything in the foregoing to
the contrary notwithstanding, the
Director shall not impose sanctions
or remedial action against a Contractor solely because the Contractor fails to achieve the established
placement goals.
(d) By notice in writing to the
Director and the Clerk of Council,
the Mayor may waive compliance
with the employment goals established under division (c) of Section
187.15 with respect to a specific Contractor seeking the award of a specific Contract when, in the Mayor’s
sole judgment, the action is necessary in the best interests of the City
and its citizens.
Section 187.17
Compliance Monitoring
(a) The Director shall monitor a
Contractor’s compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter during
the term of a Contract. If the Director determines that there is cause to
believe that a Contractor or a subcontractor has failed to comply with
any applicable requirements of this
Chapter or the Contract provisions
pertaining to CSB, MBE, or FBE
participation,
the
Administrator
shall notify the Contractor as provided in division (f) of this section.
The provisions of divisions (f), (g)
and (h) of this section, Section
187.18, and Section 187.20 shall apply
to the review and appeal of this
determination by an Administrator.
(b) The Director and the Administrator may require such reports,
information and documentation from
Contractors, Bidders, Contracting Departments, and the head of any City
department, division, or office, as
reasonably necessary to determine
compliance with requirements of
this Chapter and any Contract provisions regarding CSB, MBE, and
FBE participation, as applicable.
(c) Contracting Departments shall
maintain accurate records for each
Contract awarded, including dollar
value, the nature of the goods and
services to be provided, the name of
the Contractor, the efforts it employed to solicit bids from CSBs,
MBEs, and FBEs, and all subcontracts awarded by the Contractor,
including dollar value, the nature of
the goods or services provided, and
the name of each subcontractor.
(d) If the Administrator finds that
a Contractor is not in compliance
with the applicable provisions of
this Code or is in default with
respect to any representation made

The City Record
by the Contractor regarding applicable provisions of this Code and
upon which a certificate or approval
was awarded, then the Administrator may rescind or withdraw the relevant certificate or approval prior to
its expiration. All certificates must
be renewed on forms provided by
the OEO.
(e) Any person having knowledge
of facts tending to show that a Contractor has obtained or is seeking
certification or approval by false or
inaccurate representations to the
OEO may initiate the administrative
procedures set forth in this section,
Section 187.18 and Section 187.20. For
purposes of these sections, each Contractor must maintain its current
address(es) and those of its subcontractors with the Administrator;
the City’s mailing of any notice to
a Contractor by regular mail to the
filed address shall constitute the
required notice.
(f) If the Administrator has reason to believe that a Contractor is
in default with respect to any representation
by
the
Contractor
regarding applicable provisions of
this Code and its regulations, and on
which a certification or Contract
was awarded, the Administrator
shall:
(1) Send the Contractor written
notice by certified mail or personal
delivery of any apparent noncompliance with applicable terms of the
Code;
(2) Give the Contractor 10 days
from receipt of the notice, or other
specified reasonable opportunity to
submit records or offer other information in support of its continued
certification and compliance with
the provisions of the Code. The Administrator may consider the Contractor’s failure to submit records or
other information timely, or promptly when requested by the Administrator, as agreement to the conditions and circumstances of the noncompliance specified in the Administrator’s notice to the Contractor;
and
(3) If, after reviewing the information submitted under division
(f)(2) of this section, the Administrator determines that the Contractor is not in compliance with the
Code, then the Administrator shall
issue a written finding of noncompliance or default, stating the basis
for that finding and notifying the
Contractor of its right to object to
the finding.
(g) Any Contractor taking exception to a finding of the Administrator may attempt to reconcile the differences through informal methods
of
conciliation
and
persuasion
and/or file a written objection by an
appeal, with reasons for the objection, to the Administrator by certified mail within ten days after
receipt of the Administrator’s written finding. The Administrator may
recommend a settlement agreement
regarding the finding. If a written
objection is filed, the Administrator
shall forward the objection to the
Director within five days of its
receipt, along with all materials
relating to the determination which
is being appealed, together with any
recommendations
of
appropriate
remedial action. The provisions of
Section 187.18 will then apply.

282

February 13, 2008
(h) If the Administrator finds a
Contractor is in default with respect
to any representation by the Contractor
regarding
applicable
provisions of this Code and the Regulations on which a certificate was
issued or a Contract was awarded,
and
if
the
Contractor
fails
to
attempt reconciliation under division (g) of this section within ten
days after mailing of the written
finding,
the
Administrator
shall
forthwith forward his findings to
the Director along with a recommendation of appropriate remedial
action to be taken or sanctions to
be imposed. The Director shall then,
based solely on the findings of the
Administrator, decide whether or
not noncompliance exists and shall
take such actions set forth in division (a) of Section 187.20 as the
Director determines, applicable, appropriate, and consistent with the
decision.
Section 187.18 Hearing Procedure
If the Contractor files a timely
objection, as provided in division
(g) of Section 187.17, to a written
finding by the Administrator, the
Director shall hold a hearing on the
matter of the objection. The hearing
shall be held not less than five days
nor more than ten days from the filing, unless the Contractor and the
Director otherwise mutually agree.
The Director shall send notice of the
date, time, and place for hearing by
mail to all interested parties. The
Contractor shall have the right to
record the proceedings of the hearing at the sole expense of the Contractor.
Section 187.19 Subpoena Power
(a) In any investigation relating
to compliance by Contractors or
Business Enterprises with this Code,
the Regulations and any Contract
provisions concerning CSB, MBE, or
FBE participation, or in any hearing held under Section 187.18 relating to a Contractor’s compliance
with the City’s requirements, the
Administrator or the Director may
issue in writing and cause to be
served a subpoena requiring the following:
(1) The production of any records
or other things relevant to the investigation; and
(2) Relevant testimony.
(b) Any subpoena issued under
division (a) of this section is subject to the same limitations as
would apply if the subpoenas were
issued or served in aid of a civil
action in a court of common pleas.
(c) In case of refusal to obey a
subpoena issued by the Administrator or the Director, the Director of
Law may petition for its enforcement in the court of common pleas
in the county in which the Person
to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, or
transacts business.
Section 187.20 Decision and Available Sanctions for Noncompliance
(a) Within five business days
after the hearing required by Section
187.18, the Director shall issue and
send by certified mail to the Contractor, findings of fact and a determination of compliance or noncompliance with the Code, the Regula-

February 13, 2008
tions, or any Contract provisions concerning CSB, MBE, or FBE participation. If the Director determines
that the Contractor is in compliance
with the applicable provisions of the
Code, the Director shall issue an
appropriate certificate. If the Director determines that the Contractor is
in default with respect to any representation
upon
which
it
was
awarded a certificate or contract or
that the Contractor is not in compliance with the applicable provisions
of the Code, the Regulations and any
Contract provisions concerning CSB,
MBE, or FBE participation, the
Director, in addition to other remedies available with respect to the
foregoing and other defaults under
any Contract in question, may take
any of the following actions:
(1) Cancel any existing certificate
of employment compliance or withhold issuance of a certificate of
employment compliance until the
Contractor cures the default or complies fully with the applicable provisions of the Code, the Regulations,
and any Contract provisions concerning CSB, MBE, or FBE participation;
(2) Recommend that the City
withhold all or part of any payments due the Contractor until such
time as the Contractor cures the
default or is in full compliance with
the applicable provisions of the
Code, its Regulations and any Contract provisions concerning CSB,
MBE, or FBE participation;
(3) Recommend that the City cancel the Contract and declare a forfeiture of any performance bond;
(4) Recommend that the Director
of Law take such legal action,
whether civil or criminal, as he
deems appropriate;
(5) Recommend rescission of the
Contract based upon a material
breach of the Contract pertaining to
CSB, MBE, or FBE participation;
(6) Recommend disqualification of
a Bidder, Contractor, or other Business Enterprise from eligibility for
providing goods or services to the
City for a period not to exceed two
(2) years; or
(7) Recommend a claim for payment of damages, including any liquidated damages specified in the
Contract.
(b) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, if the
Director determines after an investigative hearing that the City has
contracted with a Front Organization and/or that a Contractor has
participated with a CSB, FBE, or
MBE Contractor in activities that
would create a Front Organization,
then the Director shall:
(1) Decertify the Contractor and
and/or Front Organization;
(2) Not permit the Contractor
and/or Front Organization to be certified for a period of not less than
one (1) year after a final determination; and
(3) Refer the matter to the City
Prosecutor’s office for appropriate
action.
(c) The decision of the Director is
final and may be appealed to the
Board of Zoning Appeals, whose
decision, in turn, may be reviewed
by the Common Pleas Court under
Chapter 2506 of the Revised Code, or
as otherwise provided by law.

The City Record
Section 187.21 Notices Required in
Advertisement for Bids
(a) If the Director is unable to
demonstrate
a
legally
sufficient
basis in evidence of past or present
discrimination against MBEs and
FBEs as provided in Section 187.28,
the Director shall cause the following notice to be included in advertisements for invitations to bid and
in requests for proposals: “Under the
Cleveland Area Business code, each
Business Enterprise seeking to do
business with the City as a Cleveland Area Small Business (“CSB”)
must first be certified by the City’s
OEO before it may contract with the
City as a CSB. Therefore, if CSB status has not been previously obtained, any prime Contractor wishing to receive credit for making a
good-faith effort to use a CSB shall
ensure that applications for certification as to CSB status, compliance
with the Code, employment compliance and, if applicable, joint venture
status, are submitted to the City’s
OEO prior to the date of bid opening or submission of proposals or as
specified by regulations. Failure to
comply with the Cleveland Area
Business Code or with representations made on these forms may
result in denial or cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”
(b) If the Director is able to
demonstrate
a
legally
sufficient
basis in evidence of past or present
discrimination against MBEs and
FBEs as provided in Section 187.28,
the Director shall cause the following notice to be included in advertisements for invitations to bid and
in requests for proposals: “Under the
Cleveland Area Business Code, each
Business Enterprise seeking to do
business with the City as a Cleveland Area Small Business, Minority
Business Enterprise (“MBE”) and/or
Female Business Enterprise (“FBE”)
first must be certified by the City’s
Office of Equal Opportunity before
contracting as a CSB, MBE, or FBE.
Therefore,
any
prime
Contractor
wishing to receive credit for making
a good-faith effort to use a CSB,
MBE, and/or FBE shall submit applications for certification as to CSB,
MBE, and/or FBE status, compliance
with the Code, affirmative action in
employment and, if applicable, joint
venture status, to the City’s Office of
Equal Opportunity prior to the date
of bid opening or submission of proposals or as specified by regulations.
Failure to comply with the Cleveland
Area Business Code or with representations made on these forms may
result in denial or cancellation of the
contract or other civil or criminal
penalties.”
Section 187.22 Equal Opportunity
Clause; Terms in Contracts
(a) Contracting Departments shall
include the notice(s) set forth in
Section 187.21 and the requirements
set forth in division (c) of Section
187.08 in all specifications for contracts. The Director shall consider
satisfaction of the duties and agreements set forth in the notice(s) in
determining whether a Contractor is
in compliance with this Code.
(b) Each Contract also shall contain the following equal opportunity clause:

283

33
“During the performance of this
contract, the contractor agrees as
follows:
(1) The contractor shall not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of
race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, disability, ethnic group or Vietnam-era
or disabled veteran status. The contractor shall take affirmative action
to
insure
that
applicants
are
employed and that employees are
treated during employment without
regard to race, religion, color, sex,
sexual orientation, national origin,
age, disability, ethnic group, or Vietnam-era or disabled veteran status.
As used in this chapter, “treated”
means and includes without limitation
the
following:
recruited,
whether by advertising or other
means; compensated, whether in the
form of rates of pay or other forms
of compensation; selected for training, including apprenticeship, promoted, upgraded, demoted, downgraded, transferred, laid off and terminated. The contractor agrees to
and shall post in conspicuous places,
available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be
provided by the hiring representatives of the contractor setting forth
the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.
(2) The contractor will, in all
solicitations or advertisements for
employees placed by or on behalf of
the contractor, state that the contractor is an equal opportunity
employer.
(3) The contractor shall send to
each labor union or representative
of workers with which he has a collective bargaining agreement or
other contract, or understanding, a
notice advising the labor union or
worker’s representative of the contractor’s commitments under the
equal opportunity clause, and shall
post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees
and applicants for employment.
(4) It is the policy of the City that
local
businesses,
minority-owned
businesses and female-owned businesses shall have every practicable
opportunity to participate in the performance of contracts awarded by
the City subject to the applicable
provisions of the Cleveland Area
Business Code.
(5) The contractor shall permit
access by the Director or his or her
designated representative to any relevant and pertinent reports and documents to verify compliance with
the Cleveland Area Business Code,
and with the Regulations. All such
materials provided to the Director or
designee by the contractor shall be
considered confidential.
(6) The contractor will not obstruct or hinder the Director or
designee in the fulfillment of the
duties and responsibilities imposed
by the Cleveland Area Business
Code.
(7) The contractor agrees that
each subcontract will include this
Equal Opportunity Clause, and the
contractor will notify each subcontractor, material supplier and supplier that the subcontractor must
agree to comply with and be subject
to all applicable provisions of the
Cleveland Area Business Code. The

34
contractor shall take any appropriate action with respect to any subcontractor as a means of enforcing
the provisions of the Code.”
Section 187.23
Review and Evaluation Committee
The Director shall serve as chairperson of a Review and Evaluation
Committee comprised of at least one
member
from
each
Contracting
Department, one liaison from the
Division of Purchases and Supplies,
and one member of Council or its
representative nominated by the
President of Council. Except for the
member nominated by the President
of Council, the members may be
appointed by the Mayor from among
nominees presented to him by the
Contracting Departments and shall
serve at the discretion of the Mayor.
The Committee shall meet as is necessary
to
fulfill
the
following
responsibilities:
(a) Review and monitor each Contracting Department’s performance
under the Cleveland Area Business
Program;
(b) Assist the Director in preparing annual reports to the Mayor on
the progress of the Cleveland Area
Business Program;
(c) Recommend changes in the
regulations promulgated under this
Code;
(d) Assist, as appropriate, in the
implementation of this Code;
(e) Prepare, review and make recommendations concerning the directory of certified CSBs, MBEs and
FBEs;
(f) Assist in preparing a Business
Enterprise monthly awards report;
and
(g) Carry out such other oversight
or coordination functions as may be
requested by the Director.
Section 187.24 Reports
(a) If a construction contract is
estimated to take more than 90 days
to complete or calls for the City to
expend $500,000 or more, each Contractor and subcontractor shall submit project site reports to the
Administrator which shall contain
such information as the Administrator may require. Reports shall be
submitted to the Administrator at
least every 90 days, or as sooner
requested by the Administrator;
(b)
Failure
to
submit
any
required report constitutes a violation of this Code for which sanctions
may be imposed under this Chapter.
Section 187.25 Violations; Disqualification; Penalty
(a) No Person shall:
(1) willfully obstruct, impede, or
attempt to obstruct or impede any
authorized official or employee who
is investigating the qualifications of
a Business Enterprise that has
requested certification as a CSB,
MBE, or FBE;
(2) fraudulently obtain, retain,
attempt to obtain or retain, or aid
another in fraudulently obtaining or
retaining, or attempting to obtain or
retain certification as a CSB, MBE,
or FBE for purposes of this Chapter;
(3) falsely state to any Person
that any other is or is not certified
as a CSB, MBE, or FBE for purposes of this Chapter;

The City Record
(4) willfully falsify, conceal or
cover up by a trick, scheme, or device a material fact, or make any
false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations or make
use of any false writing or document knowing the same to contain
any false, fictitious, or fraudulent
statement or entry in any matter
administered under this Chapter; or
(5) fraudulently obtain, attempt to
obtain, or aid another Person fraudulently obtaining or attempting to
obtain, public monies to which the
Person is not entitled under this
Chapter.
(b) Any Person who violates the
provisions of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
Section 187.26
Training Courses
and Development Activities
(a) The Director is authorized to
conduct the James H. Walker Construction
Management
Training
Course up to twice annually, to conduct other training and facilitate
and coordinate development activities authorized by and consistent
with Section 123.08, and to fix and
collect registration fees from training seminar or development activity
participants.
(b) The Director is authorized to
make purchases and enter into one
or more agreements under the Charter and relevant Codified Ordinances
for training and development materials, supplies, refreshments, graduation dinners, and, if necessary,
rental of a site for a course or activity.
(c) The Director shall deposit the
registration fees collected from participants in the training courses or
development activities into OEO’s
Educational Program Account. All
expenditures made under this section shall be paid from registration
fees collected, which are appropriated for these purposes, and from
funds appropriated for the use of
the OEO.
Section 187.27 Severability
Each section and each part of
each section of this Cleveland Area
Business Code is an independent
section or part of a section, and
notwithstanding any other evidence
of legislative intent, it is the controlling legislative intent that if any
section or part of a section or any
provision, or the application of it to
any person or circumstances, is held
invalid, the remaining sections or
parts of sections and the application
of the provision to any other person
or circumstances, other than those
as to which it is held invalid, shall
not be affected. It is further the legislative intent that the other provisions of this Code would have been
adopted independently of the section
or parts of a section which are held
invalid.
Section 187.28 Applicability of this
Code to MBEs and FBEs
When the City has developed or
obtained, by disparity study or otherwise, a legally sufficient basis in
evidence to demonstrate past or present discrimination as to participation of MBEs, or FBEs in specific
types and categories of Contracts
and contracting, the City may, as

284

February 13, 2008
remedial action with respect to the
discrimination to the extent necessary, apply the provisions of this
Chapter 187 pertaining to the use of
MBEs and FBEs in Contracts as
specified in the evidence.
Section 187.29
Professional Consultants
The Director is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts professional consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to develop or obtain a disparity study or
other documentation to determine
whether there exists a legally sufficient basis in evidence to demonstrate past or present discrimination as to participation of MBEs or
FBEs in specific types and categories of Contracts. The selection
of the consultants shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director. The compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control and shall be paid from
the fund or funds deemed appropriate by the Director of Finance and
that are appropriated for this purpose.
Section 4. That, effective one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the passage date of this ordinance,
the following existing sections of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976:
Section 187.01, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1029-03, passed June
10, 2003,
Section 187.02, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1986,
Section 187.03, as amended by
Ordinance No. 792-03, passed June 10,
2003,
Section 187.031, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed June
15, 1992,
Section 187.032, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 796-03, passed June 10,
2003,
Section 187.04, as amended by
Ordinance No. 77-94, passed March
14, 1994,
Section 187.05, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1986,
Section 187.06, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed June
15, 1992,
Section 187.07, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1986,
Sections 187.08 and 187.081, as
enacted and amended by Ordinance
No. 791-03, passed June 10, 2003,
Section 187.09, as amended by ordinance No. 1029-03, passed June 10,
2003,
Section 187.10, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1986,
Section 187.11, as amended by
Ordinance No. 77-94, passed March
14, 1994,
Sections 187.12 and 187.13, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85,
passed February 10, 1986,
Section 187.131, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed June
15, 1992,
Section 187.132, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 795-03, passed June 10,
2003,

February 13, 2008
Section 187.14, as enacted by Ordinance No. 1660-85, passed February
10, 1992; and
Section 187.15, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1186-92, passed June
15, 1992; and
Section 187.16, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2013-06, passed June 11, 2007,
are repealed.
Section 5. That, notwithstanding
any other provision of this ordinance to the contrary and in furtherance of an orderly transition
from administration of the Minority
Business
and
Female
Business
Enterprise Code to the Cleveland
Area Business Code, any business
enterprise that holds a valid certificate as a minority business enterprise or a female business enterprise from the City’s OEO and is
located and doing business in Cuyahoga County on the effective date of
this ordinance shall be deemed to be
a Cleveland Area Small Business
(CSB) for purposes of the Cleveland
Area Business Code until the earlier of the Director granting or denying the business enterprise’s application for certification as a CSB or
the expiration of eighteen (18)
months from the effective date of
this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 4, 2008.
Effective March 15, 2008.

Ord. No. 165-08.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Relations permission and authority to

The City Record
dispense wine in City Hall Rotunda
on February 28, 2008 for an African
American food and wine tasting cultural event in connection with Black
History Month.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
Section 617.11 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, permission and authority is granted to
the Director of Community Relations to dispense wine in City Hall
Rotunda on Thursday, February 28,
2008, for an African American food
and wine tasting cultural event in
connection
with
Black
History
Month.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

Ord. No. 200-08.
By Council Member White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase recreation
equipment for the Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties for

35
the Earle B. Turner Recreation Center through the use of Ward 2
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties has requested the purchase of recreation
equipment for the Earle B. Turner
Recreation Center; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties is authorized to
make one or more written contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976
for each or all of the following
items: recreation equipment for the
Earle B. Turner Recreation Center
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
for a gross price on a unit basis for
the Division of Recreation, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties.
Section 2. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized will be
paid from Fund No. 10 SF 166 and
may not exceed $34,370.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed February 4, 2008.
Effective February 8, 2008.

REPRINT
Ord. No. 1117-06.
By Council Members Pierce Scott, Lewis, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend Sections 137.09 and 137.10 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
as amended by Ordinance No. 57-94, passed June 13, 1994, relating to the creation of the Division and Commissioner
of Real Estate and the discontinuation of the Division and Commissioner of Neighborhood Development; and to
amend Sections 37 and 40 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, as amended by Ordinance No. 1647-06,
passed October 2, 2006, relating to compensation for various classifications.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That upon the concurrence of the Board of Control, as required by Sections 77 and 79 of the Charter
of the City of Cleveland, the Division of Real Estate is established and the Division of Neighborhood Development
is discontinued and for such purposes, Sections 137.09 and 137.10 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 57-94, passed June 13, 1994, are amended to read as follows:
Section 137.09 Division of Real Estate
There is established a Division of Real Estate in the Department of Community Development, which shall be
administered by a Commissioner of Real Estate, subject to the provisions of the Charter and ordinances of the
City, and to the direction of the Director of Community Development.
Section 137.10 Duties of the Commissioner of Real Estate
The Commissioner of Real Estate shall administer City programs intended to encourage the development or
improvement of residential, commercial and City-owned property in Cleveland; shall manage public acquisition,
maintenance and disposition of real estate to be used in furtherance of the City’s neighborhood and industrial
development objectives; shall manage the acquisition or lease of real estate for the general operations of the City;
and shall perform other duties as may from time to time be required by ordinance or by the Director of Community
Development.
Section 2. That upon the concurrence of the Board of Control, as required by Sections 77 and 79 of the Charter
of the City of Cleveland, the Division of Real Estate is established and the Division of Neighborhood Development
is discontinued and for such purposes, Sections 137.09 and 137.10 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 57-94, passed June 13, 1994, are repealed.

285

36

The City Record

February 13, 2008

Section 3. That concurrence of the Board of Control shall be evidenced by a certified copy of the resolution of
the Board of Control duly filed with the Clerk of Council by the Secretary of the Board of Control immediately
on the adoption of the concurring resolution, which resolution shall be attached by the Clerk of Council to this
ordinance.
Section 4. That any references contained in the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and any authority
granted by this Council to the “Division of Neighborhood Development” or the “Commissioner of Neighborhood
Development”, shall be amended to read “Division of Real Estate” and the “Commissioner of Real Estate” consistent
with this ordinance.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council is authorized and directed when publishing the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, and any amendment to the codified ordinances, to change all references to the “Division of
Neighborhood Development” to the “Division of Real Estate”, and to change all references to the “Commissioner
of Neighborhood Development” to the “Commissioner of Real Estate” consistent with this ordinance.
Section 6. That Sections 37 and 40 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, as amended by Ordinance No.
1647-06, passed October 2, 2006, are amended to read as follows:
Section 37. That the salaries and compensation in the following classifications shall be fixed by the appointing
authority in accordance with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.

Airport Maintenance Manager ...............................................
Airport Operations Manager ...................................................
Airport Safety Chief ..................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Administrative
Services .......................................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Cleveland
Public Power ............................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Code Enforcement................
Assistant Commissioner of Construction
Permitting ..................................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Information
Technology and Services .....................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Motor Vehicles
Maintenance ..............................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Real Estate ............................
Assistant Commissioner of Neighborhood
Services .......................................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Streets.......................................
Assistant Commissioner of Waste Collection
and Disposal .............................................................................
Assistant Commissioner of Water
Pollution Control .....................................................................
Assistant Director of Community Relations Board .......
Assistant Income Tax Administrator..................................
Assistant Superintendent of Electric
Transmission and Distribution ..........................................
Building and Housing Executive Assistant .....................
Chief of Air Pollution Enforcement ....................................
Chief of Air Pollution Engineering ....................................
Chief of Air Pollution Information Systems ....................
Chief of Air Pollution Monitoring .......................................
Chief Civil Service Examiner ................................................
Chief of Pharmacy Service .....................................................
Chief of Pumping .......................................................................
Chief of Water Distribution ...................................................
Chief Training Officer ..............................................................
City Hall Custodian ...................................................................
Community Development Executive Assistant ................
Contract Compliance Officer...................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Accounts ......................................
Deputy Commissioner of Air Pollution Control ..............
Deputy Commissioner of Airports ........................................
Deputy Commissioner of Air Quality .................................
Deputy Commissioner of Convention Center
and Stadium ..............................................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Convention Center....................
Deputy Commissioner of Environment...............................
Deputy Commissioner of Health ...........................................
Deputy Commissioner of Information Technology
and Systems Services ............................................................
Deputy Commissioner of Maintenance ...............................
Deputy Commissioner of Park and
Urban Forestry ........................................................................

286

Minimum
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96

Maximum
$ 83,395.52
$ 83,395.52
$ 83,395.52

$27,325.56

$ 83,395.52

$27,325.56
$26,273.96

$114,083.84
$ 83,395.52

$26,273.96

$ 83,395.52

$23,647.11

$ 80,188.16

$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$ 83,395.52
$ 83,395.52

$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$ 83,395.52
$ 83,395.52

$26,273.96

$ 83,395.52

$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$ 83,395.52
$ 83,395.52
$ 83,395.52

$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$22,333.40
$22,333.40
$22,333.40
$22,333.40
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

68,388.32
83,395.52
74,917.44
74,917.44
74,917.44
74,917.44
66,075.36
83,395.52
82,482.40
85,696.00
66,075.36
66,075.36
83,395.52
66,075.36
82,482.40
76,980.80
76,980.80
76,980.80

$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$
$
$
$

76,980.80
76,980.80
76,980.80
76,980.80

$30,214.95
$26,273.96

$ 93,215.20
$ 76,980.80

$26,273.96

$ 76,980.80

February 13, 2008
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.

The City Record

Deputy Commissioner of Parks and
Urban Forestry/Golf Courses and Cemeteries.............
Deputy Commissioner of Recreation ...................................
Director of Public Health Nurses.........................................
Fair Housing Administrator ...................................................
General Manager of Administrative Services ..................
Office of Professional Standards Administrator.............
Manager of Human Resources Program
Planning and Management .................................................
Personnel Administrator ..........................................................
Senior Budget and Management Analyst ..........................
Superintendent of Industrial Claims ...................................
Superintendent of Motorized Equipment ...........................
Utilities Comptroller ..................................................................

37
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$31,500.00
$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$
$
$
$
$
$

76,980.80
76,980.80
76,980.80
82,182.88
83,395.52
66,075.36

$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96
$26,273.96

$
$
$
$
$
$

76,980.80
76,980.80
73,035.04
66,075.36
66,075.36
83,395.52

Section 40. That the appointing authority shall fix the salaries in the following classifications in accordance
with the schedule appearing after each classification:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.

City Comptroller ..........................................................................
City Treasurer..............................................................................
Chief Technology Officer.........................................................
Commissioner of Accounts ......................................................
Commissioner of Administrative Services –
Community Development......................................................
Commissioner of Air Quality .................................................
Commissioner of Architecture................................................
Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses....................
Commissioner of Burke Airport ............................................
Commissioner of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport .............................................................
Commissioner of Cleveland Public Power ........................
Commissioner of Code Enforcement....................................
Commissioner of Construction Permitting ........................
Commissioner of Convention Center....................................
Commissioner of Emergency Medical Services ...............
Commissioner of Engineering and Construction ............
Commissioner of Environment...............................................
Commissioner of Health ...........................................................
Commissioner of House of Corrections ..............................
Commissioner of Information Technology
and Services ..............................................................................
Commissioner of Motor Vehicle Maintenance..................
Commissioner of Real Estate ................................................
Commissioner of Neighborhood Services ...........................
Commissioner of Park Maintenance
and Properties ..........................................................................
Commissioner of Parking Facilities....................................
Commissioner of Printing and Reproduction...................
Commissioner of Property Management ............................
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies .........................
Commissioner of Recreation ...................................................
Commissioner of Research/Planning and
Development..............................................................................
Commissioner of Streets...........................................................
Commissioner of Traffic Engineering ................................
Commissioner of Utilities Engineering ..............................
Commissioner of Utilities Fiscal Control ..........................
Commissioner of Waste Collection and Disposal...........
Commissioner of Water ............................................................
Commissioner of Water Pollution Control ........................
Deputy Director Department of Building
and Housing..............................................................................
Income Tax Administrator ......................................................
Manager of Internal Audit .....................................................

Minimum
$42,758.15
$42,758.15
$45,000.00
$40,314.82

Maximum
$128,648.00
$118,751.36
$144,612.00
$123,235.84

$40,314.82
$42,758.15
$42,758.15
$40,314.82
$40,314.92

$123,235.84
$128,648.00
$137,793.76
$113,755.20
$113,755.20

$42,758.15
$45,201.46
$42,758.15
$42,758.15
$45,201.46
$42,758.15
$45,201.46
$42,758.15
$45,021.46
$40,314.82

$137,793.76
$160,680.00
$128,648.00
$128,648.00
$121,975.36
$128,648.00
$136,764.16
$128,648.00
$136,764.16
$113,640.80

$52,734.82
$40,314.82
$40,314.82
$42,758.15

$136,764.16
$123,235.84
$113,755.20
$118,751.36

$42,758.15
$40,314.82
$40,314.82
$45,201.46
$42,758.15
$42,758.15

$137,793.76
$123,235.84
$123,235.84
$136,764.16
$118,751.36
$137,793.76

$40,314.82
$40,314.82
$42,758.15
$42,758.15
$40,314.82
$40,314.82
$45,201.46
$40,314.82

$123,235.84
$123,235.84
$118,751.36
$113,755.20
$113,755.20
$123,235.84
$160,680.00
$123,235.84

$36,590.39
$42,758.15
$40,314.82

$128,648.00
$128,648.00
$113,755.20

Section 7. That existing Sections 37 and 40 of Ordinance No. 289-06, passed March 27, 2006, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1647-06, passed October 2, 2006, are repealed.
Section 8. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed January 28, 2008.
Effective January 30, 2008.

287

The City Record

38
COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Brady, Conwell, Turner, Zone, Brancatelli, Westbrook, Coats, White,
Pierce Scott.

GENERAL FUND
BUDGET HEARINGS

Tuesday, February 12, 2008
9:00 a.m.

Monday, February 11, 2008
9:00 a.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair;

Finance
Committee:
Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Conwell, Turner, Zone, Brancatelli, Westbrook, Coats, White,

February 13, 2008
Pierce Scott. Authorized Absence:
Brady.
Wednesday, February 13, 2008
9:00 a.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice Chair;
Brady, Conwell, Turner, Zone, Brancatelli, Westbrook, Coats, White,
Pierce Scott.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Airport system revenue refunding bonds — authorizing hedge agreements —
supplemental indentures — Finance Dept. (O 240-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Providing for the exchange of real property — Community Development Dept. —
Purchases & Supplies Division (O 243-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260

Billboards
Clear Channel Outdoor — contact information for all billboards (F 250-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Arlington Avenue, 13013, (Ward 9) — Willie & Bertha Tyree, owners — appeal adopted
on 2/6/08 (Doc. A-172-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Broadway Avenue, 8411, (Ward 12) — Community Assessment and Treatment Services,
Inc., owner — appeal adopted on 2/6/08 (Doc. A-185-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Columbus Road, 1948, (Ward 13) — John J. Falsone, owner — appeal adopted on 2/6/08
(Doc. A-5-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Darley Avenue, 14200, (Ward 10) — City Rose, Ltd., owner — appeal resolved on 2/6/08
(Doc. A-7-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
East 105th Street, 2280, (Ward 6) — Visionary Investments, Inc., owner — appeal resolved
on 2/6/08 (Doc. A-2-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
East 144th Street, 3639, (Ward 3) — Tyrone M. Daniels, owner — appeal adopted on 2/6/08
(Doc. A-177-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
East 53rd Street, 3446, (Ward 12) — Csaba Varga, owner — appeal resolved on 2/6/08
(Doc. A-189-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
East Park Drive, 16905, (Ward 11) — Aurora Loan Services, LLC, mortgagee — appeal
resolved on 2/6/08 (Doc. A-1-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Euclid Avenue, 11625, (Ward 9) — D.M.T. Inc., owner — appeal resolved on 2/6/08
(Doc. A-12-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Fenwick Avenue, 4311, (Ward 14) — William K. Watson, owner — appeal resolved on 2/6/08
(Doc. A-176-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Ontario Street, 1300, (Ward 13) — City of Cleveland (Cleveland Municipal Court), owner —
appeal adopted on 2/6/08 (Doc. A-4-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Ontario Street, 1370, (Ward 13) — Brother Hood of Locomotive Engineers, owner — appeal
resolved on 2/6/08 (Doc. A-13-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Pierpont Avenue, 9609, (Ward 8) — Bank of New York, c/o Countrywide Home Loans, mortgagee —
appeal adopted on 2/6/08 (Doc. A-175-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Public Square, 50, (Ward 13) — Terminal Investments, owner — appeal adopted on
2/6/08 (Doc. A-188-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Superior Avenue, 526, Suite 1111, (Ward 13) — CB Richard Ellis, owner — appeal resolved
on 2/6/08 (Doc. A-14-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Transport Road, 2655, (Ward 5) — General Environmental Management, LLC/ESG Holdings, LLC,
owner — appeal resolved on 2/6/08 (Doc. A-8-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Westropp Avenue, 14721, (Ward 10) — MidFirst Bank, mortgagee — appeal adopted on 2/6/08
(Doc. A-169-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269

288

February 13, 2008

The City Record

39

Board of Control — Burke Lakefront Airport Division
Retail merchandise and food and beverage concessions — concession agreement per Ord.
1850-06 to BAA USA, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 72-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Retail merchandise and food and beverage concessions — concession agreement per Ord.
1850-06 to BAA USA, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 72-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265

Board of Control — Concession Agreement
Retail merchandise and food and beverage concessions — concession agreement per Ord.
1850-06 to BAA USA, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 72-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265

Board of Control — Finance Department
Building materials and paving bricks, used — contract per Ord. 1724-07 to Interstate
Safety & Service Co., Inc. (BOC Res. 69-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Janitorial supplies — contract per Ord. 1724-07 to Emerald Supply Inc. (BOC Res. 71-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265
Janitorial supplies — contract per Ord. 1724-07 to Graham Enterprises, d.b.a., Aries
Distribution (BOC Res. 70-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265
Sale of scrap. personal property, and by-products in January 2008 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 68-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Diesel fuel — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Great Lakes Petroleum Co. — Dept. of
Public Service (BOC Res. 76-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267
Diesel fuel — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Petroleum Traders Corporation — Dept. of
Public Service (BOC Res. 75-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Diesel fuel — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Universal Oil, Inc. — Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 77-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Roller skating management and concession services at Zelma Watson George Recreation
Center — contract per Ord. 1255-07 to United Skates of Cleveland, LLC — Division of
Recreation (BOC Res. 78-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Engineering and architectural services — contract per Ord. 186-07 to R.W. Armstrong
& Associates, Inc. (BOC Res. 73-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Engineering and architectural services — contract per Ord. 186-07 to C &
S Engineers, Inc. (BOC Res. 74-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Retail merchandise and food and beverage concessions — concession agreement per Ord.
1850-06 to BAA USA, Inc. (BOC Res. 72-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Engineering and architectural services — contract per Ord. 186-07 to R.W. Armstrong
& Associates, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 73-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Engineering and architectural services — contract per Ord. 186-07 to C &
S Engineers, Inc. — Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 74-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Diesel fuel — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Great Lakes Petroleum Co. — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 76-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267
Diesel fuel — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Petroleum Traders Corporation — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 75-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Diesel fuel — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Universal Oil, Inc. — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 77-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267

289

The City Record

40

February 13, 2008

Board of Control — Purchases and Supplies Division
Sale of scrap. personal property, and by-products in January 2008 — per BOC Res. 921-52
(BOC Res. 68-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264

Board of Control — Recreation Division
Roller skating management and concession services at Zelma Watson George Recreation
Center — contract per Ord. 1255-07 to United Skates of Cleveland, LLC — Dept.
of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 78-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Building materials and paving bricks, used — contract per Ord. 1724-07 to Interstate
Safety & Service Co., Inc. — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 69-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Diesel fuel — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Great Lakes Petroleum Co. — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 76-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267
Diesel fuel — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Petroleum Traders Corporation — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 75-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Diesel fuel — contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Universal Oil, Inc. — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 77-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267
Janitorial supplies — contract per Ord. 1724-07 to Emerald Supply Inc. — Dept. of Finance
(BOC Res. 71-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265
Janitorial supplies — contract per Ord. 1724-07 to Graham Enterprises, d.b.a., Aries
Distribution — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 70-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265
Roller skating management and concession services at Zelma Watson George Recreation
Center — contract per Ord. 1255-07 to United Skates of Cleveland, LLC — Division of
Recreation, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 78-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Broadview Road, 4450, (Ward 16) — Anthony Vanadia, owner, and Teresa Elkins, lessee —
appeal postponed to 03/24/08 on 2/11/2008 (Cal. 07-241) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Buckeye Road, 8340, (Ward 5) — Saeid B. Amini, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
2/11/2008 (Cal. 07-251) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Buckeye Road, 8400, (Ward 5) — Saeid B. Amini, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
2/11/2008 (Cal. 07-252) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
East 116th Street, 2871, (Ward 4) — Chareese, Inc., d.b.a., Ms. Martha’s Restaurant and
Lounge and their attorney James Hewitt, III — appeal denied and adopted on 2/11/2008
(Cal. 08-3). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
East 65th Street, 3123-27, (Ward 12) — David Mathoslah, owner and Daisha
Thomas, prospective tenant — appeal postponed to 03/03/08 on 2/11/08 (Cal. 08-7) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Euclid Avenue, 17914, (Ward 10) — Cleveland Metropolitan School District, owner — appeal
granted and adopted on 2/11/2008 (Cal. 08-5) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Fleet Avenue, 5421, (Ward 12) — Fleet Avenue Investment Ltd., owner — appeal withdrawn
on 2/11/08 (Cal. 07-213) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Mayfield Road, 12106-12112, (Ward 6) — Flynn Properties, LLC, owner and Terry Tarantino,
tenant — appeal heard on 2/11/08 (Cal. 08-9) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Nathaniel Road, 1016, (Ward 11) — Lashunda Lewis, owner — appeal withdrawn 2/11/2008
(Cal. 07-242) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Rocky River Drive, 4081, (Ward 21) — Lucy Champa, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
2/11/2008 (Cal. 07-189) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Valley Road, 3920, (Ward 15) — Leo Margo, owner — appeal granted and adopted on 2/11/2008
(Cal. 07-229) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Woodhill Road, 2856, (Ward 4) — Dennis Cleaning Company, LLC, owner and Starr Dickson,
tenant — appeal postponed to 03/31/08 on 2/11/2008 (Cal. 07-222) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Woodland Avenue, 8226, (Ward 5) — Saeid B. Amini, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
2/11/2008 (Cal. 07-249) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Woodland Avenue, 8322, (Ward 5) — Saeid B. Amini, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
2/11/2008 (Cal. 07-250) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Columbus Road, 1852, (Ward 13) — Eighteen Fifty Properties, owner and James Hayes —
appeal to be heard on 2/25/2008 (Cal. 08-19) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267
Westfield Avenue, 16608, (Ward 11) — David Sims, owner — appeal to be heard on 2/25/2008
(Cal. 08-20) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267
Whitcomb Road, 815, (Ward 11) — Haskell Orr, owner — appeal to be heard on 2/25/2008
(Cal. 08-24) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268

290

February 13, 2008

The City Record

41

Bonds
Airport system revenue refunding bonds — authorizing hedge agreements —
supplemental indentures — Finance Dept. (O 240-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

City of Cleveland Bids
Ballistic vests, carriers, t-shirts, bras and tactical carriers — Department of Public
Safety — Division of Police — per C.O. Sec. 135.06 — bid due March 6, 2008
(advertised 2/13/2008 and 2/20/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270
Catch basin and manhole repair — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water
Pollution Control — per C.O. Sec. 129.291 — bid due February 29, 2008
(advertised 2/13/2008 and 2/20/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270
Debris (construction and demolition) disposal (Contracts C & D) — Department of Public
Service — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal — per Ord. 1604-07 — bid
due March 6, 2008 (advertised 2/13/2008 and 2/20/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270
Hoses, hydraulic, hose ends, adapters, fittings, brass tooling, equipment and accessories —
Department of Public Service — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord.
686-07 — bid due February 28, 2008 (advertised 2/6/2008 and 2/13/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270
Spartan and Smeal Fire apparatus equipment parts — Department of Public Service —
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 686-07 — bid due February 28, 2008
(advertised 2/6/2008 and 2/13/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

Codified Ordinances
Construction contracts — violation and penalty — amend Section 188.05 (O 67-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
Office of Equal Opportunity — amend Sec. 123.08 — new Sects. 187.01 to 187.29 —
repeal existing Sects. 187.01 to 187.16 (O 77-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 275
Real Estate Division and Commissioner — creation — amend Sects. 137.09 & 137.10 —
Div. of Commissioner of Neighborhood Development discontinuation
(O 1117-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285-R

Communications
Clear Channel Outdoor — contact information for all billboards (F 250-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Community Development
Atrium Office Plaza Complex — acquisition and redevelopment — contract —
The K & D Group, Inc. — (O 59-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
E. 128th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Clara K. Parrish (O 247-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 262
Meyer Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Benson W. Dunlap (O 248-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 262
Providing for the exchange of real property — agreement — Purchases & Supplies Division
(O 243-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260
Real Estate Division and Commissioner — creation — amend Sects. 137.09 & 137.10 —
Div. of Commissioner of Neighborhood Development discontinuation
(O 1117-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285-R
Saranac Rd. — Land Reutilization Program — John M. Olivo (O 1821-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
W. 45th St. — Land Reutilization Program — West 11th Street Properties LLC
(O 1820-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
W. 45th St., & Fruit Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — West 11th Street Properties, LLC
(O 246-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 261
West 68th St., — Land Reutilization Program — Earl M. Gibbs, Jr. (O 249-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263

Community Relations Board
Authorization to dispense wine — February 28, 2008 (O 165-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Condolences
Allmond, Tanya — (R 251-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Anna, Mary — (R 259-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Beltcher, Joseph Mac — (R 256-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Brown, Jr., Lawrence — (R 257-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Daniels, Melvin — (R 262-08)*****253
Dunavant, Thomas Andrew — (R 254-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Givhan, Octavia Walker — (R 258-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

291

The City Record

42

February 13, 2008

Karr, Council Member Connie — (R 261-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Lovejoy, Sara P. — (R 255-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Lynch, Council Member Michael — (R 260-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Means, Mandrell — (R 263-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Moss, Mrs. Florine — (R 264-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Sheffield, Homer Walter — (R 253-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Teague, Daisy Teague — (R 252-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Congratulations
Becker, Brian — (R 265-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Vega, Louie — (R 266-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Contracts
Atrium Office Plaza Complex — acquisition and redevelopment — The K & D Group, Inc. —
Community Development (O 59-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
Purchase one digital postage meter — Taxation Division — Finance Department
(O 239-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
UDAG loan recipients — contract amendments — discount prepayments — Economic Development
(O 1942-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264

Dominion East Ohio
Natural gas & natural gas transporation services — purchase — (O 238-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Economic Development Department
UDAG loan recipients — contract amendments — discount prepayments —
(O 1942-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264

Finance Department
Airport system revenue refunding bonds — authorizing hedge agreements — supplemental
indentures — (O 240-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Natural gas & natural gas transporation services — purchase — Dominion East Ohio
(O 238-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Project Clean Program — Parks, Recreation and Properties Dept. —
temporary and seasonal personnel — temporary employment agencies
(O 242-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260
Purchase one digital postage meter — contracts — Taxation Division — (O 239-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Grants
Community Development Grant (Drop Off) Program 2008 — Ohio Department of
Natural Resources — Public Service (O 241-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260

Land Reutilization Program
E. 128th St. — Clara K. Parrish (O 247-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 262
Meyer Ave., — Benson W. Dunlap (O 248-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 262
Saranac Rd. — John M. Olivo (O 1821-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
W. 45th St. — West 11th Street Properties LLC (O 1820-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
W. 45th St., & Fruit Ave. — West 11th Street Properties, LLC (O 246-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 261
West 68th St., — Earl M. Gibbs, Jr. (O 249-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263

Liquor Permits
Buckeye Ave., 10008 — objection — withdraw — (Ward 4) (R 204-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271
Buckeye Rd., 11312 — Objection — transfer — (Ward 4) (R 245-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263
Kinsman Rd. 15310 — objection — (Ward 3) (R 205-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271
Puritas Ave., 13925 — objection — (Ward 20) (R 207-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
St. Clair Ave., 14045 — objection — withdraw — (Ward 10) (R 202-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271
W. 44th St., 3353 — objection — withdraw — (Ward 14) (R 206-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
Woodside Ave., 12713-17 — objection — transfer — (Ward 9) (R 203-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271

292

February 13, 2008

The City Record

43

Mayor’s Office
Mayor’s and Council’s — Support of the passage of Issue 15 on March 4, 2008 — Health & Human
Services (R 201-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Earle B.Turner Recreation Center — purchase recreation equipment — Parks, Recreation and
Properties Dept. — Ward 2 N.E.F. funds. (O 200-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Office of Equal Opportunity
Construction contracts — violation and penalty — amend Section 188.05 (O 67-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
Amend Sec. 123.08 — new Sects. 187.01 to 187.29 — repeal existing Sects. 187.01 to 187.16
(O 77-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 275

Ohio Department of Natural Resources
Community Development Grant (Drop Off) Program 2008 — grant — Public Service (O 241-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Earle B.Turner Recreation Center — purchase recreation equipment — Ward 2 N.E.F. funds.
(O 200-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
Project Clean Program — Finance Dept. — temporary and seasonal personnel — temporary
employment agencies (O 242-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260

Permits
West Side Tavern Chili Bowl 5K — first annual on February 16, 2008 (O 244-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263

Personnel Department
Real Estate Division and Commissioner — creation — amend Sects. 137.09 & 137.10 —
Div. of Commissioner of Neighborhood Development discontinuation
(O 1117-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285-R

Professional Services
Geotechnical and environmental engineering services — professional consultants —
Public Service (O 2009-07). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274

Purchases
Natural gas & natural gas transporation services — Dominion East Ohio
(O 238-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Purchases and Supplies Division
Earle B.Turner Recreation Center — purchase recreation equipment —
Parks, Recreation and Properties Dept. — Ward 2 N.E.F. funds.
(O 200-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
Providing for the exchange of real property — agreement — Community Development Dept. —
(O 243-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260
Purchase one digital postage meter — contracts — Taxation Division — Finance Department
(O 239-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Real Estate
Real Estate Division and Commissioner — creation — amend Sects. 137.09 & 137.10 —
Div. of Commissioner of Neighborhood Development discontinuation
(O 1117-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285-R

Recognition
Newble, Ira — (R 267-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

293

The City Record

44

February 13, 2008

Recreation Centers
Earle B.Turner Recreation Center — purchase recreation equipment — Parks, Recreation and
Properties Dept. — Ward 2 N.E.F. funds. (O 200-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285

Reprints
Real Estate Division and Commissioner — creation — amend Sects. 137.09 & 137.10 —
Div. of Commissioner of Neighborhood Development discontinuation
(O 1117-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285-R

Service Department
Community Development Grant (Drop Off) Program 2008 — grant —
Ohio Department of Natural Resources — (O 241-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260
Geotechnical and environmental engineering services — professional consultants —
(O 2009-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274

Support
Mayor’s and Council’s — Support of the passage of Issue 15 on March 4, 2008 —
Health & Human Services (R 201-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

Taxation Division
Purchase one digital postage meter — contracts — Taxation Division — Finance Department
(O 239-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254

Ward 01
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Moss, Mrs. Florine — condolence (R 264-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Sheffield, Homer Walter — condolence (R 253-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Teague, Daisy Teague — condolence (R 252-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Ward 02
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Daniels, Melvin — condolence (R 262-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Earle B.Turner Recreation Center — purchase recreation equipment —
Parks, Recreation and Properties Dept. — Ward 2 N.E.F. funds
(O 200-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285
Givhan, Octavia Walker — condolence (R 258-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Ward 03
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Kinsman Rd. 15310 — objection — liquor permit — (R 205-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271

Ward 04
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Buckeye Ave., 10008 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit — (R 204-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271
Buckeye Rd., 11312 — Objection — transfer — liquor Permit — (R 245-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263

Ward 05
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Ward 06
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Means, Mandrell — condolence (R 263-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Ward 07
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

294

February 13, 2008

The City Record

45

Ward 08
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Lovejoy, Sara P. — condolence (R 255-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Ward 09
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Lovejoy, Sara P. — condolence (R 255-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Newble, Ira — Recognition (R 267-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Woodside Ave., 12713-17 — objection — transfer — liquor permit — (R 203-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271

Ward 10
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Beltcher, Joseph Mac — condolence (R 256-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Brown, Jr., Lawrence — condolence (R 257-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
E. 128th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Clara K. Parrish (O 247-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 262
Saranac Rd. — Land Reutilization Program — John M. Olivo (O 1821-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 273
St. Clair Ave., 14045 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit — (R 202-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271

Ward 11
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Anna, Mary — condolence (R 259-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Ward 12
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Mayor’s and Council’s — Support of the passage of Issue 15 on March 4, 2008 — Health & Human
Services (R 201-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

Ward 13
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Atrium Office Plaza Complex — acquisition and redevelopment — contract — The K & D Group,
Inc. — Community Development (O 59-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
W. 45th St. — Land Reutilization Program — West 11th Street Properties LLC (O 1820-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
W. 45th St., & Fruit Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — West 11th Street Properties, LLC
(O 246-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 261
West Side Tavern Chili Bowl 5K — permit — first annual on February 16, 2008
(O 244-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263

Ward 14
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Dunavant, Thomas Andrew — condolence (R 254-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Meyer Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Benson W. Dunlap (O 248-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 262
W. 44th St., 3353 — objection — withdraw — liquor permit — (R 206-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272

Ward 15
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Mayor’s and Council’s — Support of the passage of Issue 15 on March 4, 2008 —
Health & Human Services (R 201-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

Ward 16
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Ward 17
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Karr, Council Member Connie — condolence (R 261-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Lynch, Council Member Michael — condolence (R 260-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Vega, Louie — congratulations (R 266-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
West 68th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Earl M. Gibbs, Jr. (O 249-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 263

295

The City Record

46

February 13, 2008

Ward 18
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Ward 19
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Vega, Louie — congratulations (R 266-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Ward 20
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Becker, Brian — congratulations (R 265-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mayor’s and Council’s — Support of the passage of Issue 15 on March 4, 2008 —
Health & Human Services (R 201-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Puritas Ave., 13925 — objection — liquor permit — (R 207-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vega, Louie — congratulations (R 266-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

Ward 21
Allmond, Tanya — condolence (R 251-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253

296

