The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

May the Seventh, Two Thousand and Eight

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
Fannie M. Lewis
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
27
27
30
30
31
33
33
33
35
41
42

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Nina Turner..................................................16204 Sunny Glen Avenue
44128
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
Fannie M. Lewis.........................................................7416 Star Avenue
44103
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Angel Guzman, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley; Councilman Nina Turner.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue

POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.

DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

AUDIT COMMITTEE – Robert Rawson, Chairman; Yvette Ittu, Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis,
Don Neebes, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.

CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Laura M. Bala, Chair; Jennifer
Coleman, Vice Chair; Robert N. Brown, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Thomas
Coffey, Robert Jackimowicz; Ari Maron, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John
Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert Keiser, Secretary.

CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
14B
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12A
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles Patton, Jr.
12B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Michael John Ryan
12C
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak –
Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MAY 7, 2008

Vol. 95

No. 4926

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MAY 5, 2008
The City Record
Published weekly by the City Clerk,
Clerk of Council under authority

10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Coats,
Cummins,
Kelley,
Mitchell, Polensek, Santiago, Turner.

of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

The City Record is available

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice Chair;
Cleveland, Cummins, Keane, Kelley,
Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Keane,
Lewis, Reed, Zone.

online at

www.clevelandcitycouncil.org
Address all communications to

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Turner.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human Services Committee: Brancatelli, Chair;
Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley, Mitchell, Reed, Santiago.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek, Reed, Santiago, White.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Keane, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Lewis, Pierce
Scott, Reed, White.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Coats,
Conwell, Pierce Scott, Turner, Westbrook, White, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cimperman, Cummins, Coats,
Lewis, Westbrook. Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Lewis, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson,
Mitchell.

The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee:
Westbrook,
Chair;
Kelley,
Mitchell,
Pierce
Scott,
Santiago,
Sweeney, White.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 711-08.
Re: Stock Transfer Application -2598338 – Ezzat, Inc., d.b.a., Unity
Food Mart, 10221 Union Avenue, first
floor
and
basement.
(Ward
3)
Received.
File No. 712-08.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application -- 2455353 – 84
Charing Cross, Inc., d.b.a., Visible
Voice
Books,
1023
Kenilworth
Avenue. (Ward 13) Received.
PLATS
File No. 713-08.
Re: Dedication of West 6th Street
and
Starkweather
Avenue
(Valleyview Homes Hope VI, Phase I).
(Ward 14). Received.
Approved by Committees on Public Service and City Planning.
With objection, plat approved.
Yeas 19. Nays 0.
COMMUNICATIONS

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, May 5, 2008
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson,
Keane, Kelley, Mitchell, Polensek,
Santiago, Pierce Scott, Sweeney, Turner, Westbrook, White and Zone.
Also present were Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Ken Silliman, Chief of
Staff; Darnell Brown, Chief Operating Officer; Monyka S. Price, Chief
of Education; Maureen Harper, Chief
of Communications; Andrea V. Taylor, Press Secretary; Debra Linn Talley, Director of Office of Equal
Opportunity; and Directors Triozzi,
Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rybka, Hutchinson, Fumich, Griffen
and Brown.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76,
a prayer was offered by Rev.
Ronald Lee, Pastor of Calvary Condgregational Church, located at 4424
Lee Road, in Ward 1. Pledge of Allegiance.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

MOTION

10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Keane,
Vice
Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Mitchell, Turner, Westbrook.

On the motion of Council Member
Kelley, the reading of the minutes
of the last meeting was dispensed
with and the journal approved. Seconded by Council Member Mitchell.

867

File No. 714-08.
From
Council
Member
Sabra
Pierce
Scott,
Ward
8
-Memo
requesting to recuse herself from
voting on Ordinance No. 679-08.
Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 715-08—Joseph Monroe.
Res. No. 716-08—Rev. Joseph O.
Schell, S.J.
Res. No. 717-08—Ronald Winbush.
Res. No. 718-08—Stephanie Taylor
Awyers.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 719-08—Richard Homzy.
Res. No. 720-08—Ruby Gee.
Res. No. 721-08—Andrew A. Venable,
Jr.
RESOLUTIONS OF RECOGNITION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 722-08—Edward Capps.
Res.
No.
723-08—35th
Annual
National EMS Week

The City Record

4
COMMEMORATION RESOLUTION
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolution was adopted
without objection:
Res. No.
berlain

724-08—Christine

Cham-

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1112-A-07 (As a substitute
for Ord. No. 1112-07).
By Council Member Brady.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 3103.091, relating to utility shut-off in vacant and unsafe
structures; and to amend Sections
3103.09 and 3103.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 903-06, passed May 22,
2006
and
Ordinance
No.
899-06,
passed August 9, 2006, relating to
unsafe structures and exterior property nuisances; violation and remedial
notices;
cost
recovery
and
penalty.
Whereas, this Council finds that
there
has
been
a
significant
increase in vacant and unsafe properties in the City which are often
the target of vandalism, theft and
other damage to property and is a
public nuisance. The nuisance is
compounded when gas, electrical
and water service is left on due to
the danger from potential gas leaks,
accidental fire, and floods; and
Whereas, vacant and unsafe structures in which utility services have
not been disconnected are a safety
hazard that creates a serious risk of
harm to persons and property; and.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
supplemented by enacting new Section 3103.091 to read as follows:
Section 3103.091
Utility Shut-Off
in Vacant and Unsafe Structures
(a) Any structure determined by
the Director of Building and Housing to be vacant and unsafe as
defined in Section 3103.09 and for
which utility service, including gas,
electric and water, or other utility
as identified by the Director of
Building and Housing, has not been
disconnected poses an immediate
risk of harm from explosion, fire, or
flooding and is therefore declared to
be a nuisance which shall be abated by termination of all utility service.
(b) When notified by the Director
or his designee, no Utility shall fail
to terminate its service to any
vacant and unsafe structure within
twenty (20) business days of receipt
of written notice. Notice shall be
served on the Utility by certified
mail. It shall be the responsibility
of the Utility to designate a person
to receive the notice provided for in
this section. Beginning June 1, 2008,
and as often as necessary to ensure
that the City has current information, the Utility shall provide to the
Director the name, address and telephone number of the person designated to receive City notices.
(c) For purposes of this section:
(1) “Utility” means any company,
in the business of providing electrical, water, gas, or other utility service to a building or structure.

(2) “Vacant” means that no person
actually and legally resides in any
part of the structure or that no person conducts a lawful business in
any part of the structure.
(d) In the event of any actual or
threatened violation of this chapter
or an emergency situation, the
Director of Law, in addition to other
remedies provided by law, may institute proper suit in equity or at law
to prevent or terminate such violation or remedy such situation.
(e) The Director shall promulgate
rules and regulations to enforce this
section.
Section 2. That Sections 3103.09
and 3103.99, as amended by Ordinance No. 903-06, passed May 22, 2006
and Ordinance No. 899-06, passed
August 9, 2006, are amended to read
as follows:
Section 3103.09 Unsafe Structures
and Exterior Property Nuisances;
Violations and Remedial Notices;
Cost Recovery
(a) Legislative Findings.
Council of the City of Cleveland
finds that:
(1) Structures that are vacant and
open to entry at doors, windows or
other points accessible to the general public:
A. Attract children to enter;
B. Become harborage for vermin;
C. Serve as temporary abode for
derelicts, vagrants and criminals;
and
D. Are likely to be damaged by
vandals or set ablaze by arsonists.
(2) Unkept grounds surrounding
vacant, open structures invite the
dumping of garbage and rubbish;
(3) Thousands of structures in
this City are made of wood-frame
construction
that
is
more
combustible than other building types;
(4) Thousands of structures in
this City are situated on narrow lots
and in close proximity to one another, increasing the risk of conflagration and spread of insect and rodent
infestation;
(5) Population loss and economic
decline experienced by the City in
recent years has caused the incidence of vacant, open structures,
high grass, weeds, junk, debris, and
junk motor vehicles to increase significantly;
(6) Vacant, open structures often
become dilapidated because they are
not repaired by the owners or persons in control of the structures;
(7) Structures that are vacant and
open to entry, high grass, weeds,
junk, debris, and junk motor vehicles depress the market value of
surrounding properties;
(8) Vacant and unsafe structures
in which utility services have not
been disconnected create a serious
risk of explosion, accidental fire and
flood.
(9) The existence of certain hazardous conditions may require a
structure to be vacated; these conditions include but are not limited
to:
A. Danger of structural collapse;
B. Inadequate heat or use of dangerous heating mechanism;
C. Danger of fire; and
D. Lack of plumbing in safe working order.
(10) Structures that remain boarded for an extended period of time
contribute
to
blight,
cause
a
decrease in neighboring property
values, create targets for arson, and
lead to the cancellation of home-

868

May 7, 2008
owners’ insurance for neighboring
property owners.
(11) The following conditions provide
harborage
and
breeding
grounds for pests or otherwise create human-health problems:
A. Grass over 8 inches in height.
B. Noxious weeds including Russian, Canadian, or common thistle;
wild lettuce; wild mustard; wild
parsley; ragweed; milk weed; iron
weed; wild plants that can cause
skin reaction upon contact or produce or aggravate hay fever, asthma, allergic respiratory reaction, or
similar conditions; and all other noxious weeds.
C. Refuse, including but not limited to, trash, junk, garbage and
food waste, offal, animal wastes,
tires, and all other waste materials.
D. Stagnant surface water.
(12) As used in this Chapter
“junk” motor vehicle means a motor
vehicle that meets all of the following criteria:
A. Three model years’ old or older;
B. Apparently inoperable; and
C. Extensively damaged, including, but not limited to, any of the
following: missing wheels, tires,
engine, motor, or transmission. (R.C.
§505.173)
(b) Declaration of Nuisance.
(1) All buildings or structures
that are injurious to or a menace to
the public health, safety or welfare,
or are structurally unsafe, unsanitary or not provided with adequate
safe egress, or constitute a fire hazard, or are vacant and open to public entry, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or injurious to the
public, or in relation to existing use
constitute a hazard to the public
health, safety or welfare by reason
of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence or abandonment, are, severally, for the purposes of this Building Code, declared to
be “unsafe structures.” All unsafe
structures or conditions are declared
to be public nuisances. The public
nuisance shall be abated by correction of the violations to the minimum standards of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
applicable City rules and regulations, the Revised Code, and Ohio
Administrative Code, including the
Ohio Building Code, or by demolition.
(2) The condition described under
division (a) (8) of this section is
declared to be a nuisance because of
the risk of harm from explosion,
accidental fire or flooding and shall
be abated by disconnection of the
services.
(3) The conditions listed in division (a) (11) of this section are
declared to be nuisances that shall
be removed, destroyed, or abated
from any property on which they
are found.
(4)
Junk
motor
vehicles
as
defined in division (a) (12) of this
section are declared to be nuisances
that shall be removed or abated
from any property on which they
are found. Junk motor vehicles are
declared to be a nuisance because:
A. They harbor rodents, vermin,
and other pests;
B. They contain toxic substances
and flammable liquids and fumes;
C. They attract children to enter;
D. They serve as temporary abode
for derelicts, vagrants and criminals;
E. They diminish neighboring
property values; and
F. They are likely to be damaged
by vandals or set ablaze by arsonists.

May 7, 2008
(c) Effective Boarding Pending
Rehabilitation.
(1) Permits. Pending the correction of the violations to the minimum standards of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
applicable City rules and regulations, the Revised Code, and the
Ohio Administrative Code, including
the Ohio Building Code, the owner
of a structure may secure the structure through effective boarding. In
order to effectively board the structure, the owner of the structure
shall apply, within 3 days of receiving a notice of violation, to the
Department of Building and Housing for a permit to board. The
Department of Building and Housing shall review the condition of the
structure, determine if it can be
effectively boarded, and grant or
deny the owner’s permit to board,
setting forth special requirements, if
any, necessary for compliance with
minimum standards for effective
boarding. The owner shall effectively board the structure within 3
days of the issuance of a boarding
permit, or within any other time
limit that the Director deems appropriate. Structures that are boarded
without first obtaining a boarding
permit or structures that do not comply with the boarding permit shall
continue to be considered public nuisances subject to demolition. Within
thirty (30) days of the issuance of
a permit to board, the owner of the
structure shall apply for a rehabilitation permit under Section 3105.06
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. The Director may
grant an extension of time for
acquiring a rehabilitation permit on
the owner's written request and for
good cause shown. Failure of the
owner to obtain a rehabilitation permit after effective boarding will
result in the structure being deemed
a public nuisance, and scheduled for
demolition.
(2) Materials. The effective boarding of a structure shall include, but
not be limited to, doors, windows, or
other areas of the structure open to
ingress and egress and to weather
elements at any and all levels of the
structure. The openings shall be
secured by plywood, not less than
1/2" thick, or other material of
equal strength, cut and fit into the
openings. Openings in excess of
forty-eight inches wide shall be
framed with 2" x 4" lumber and plywood, or equivalent material fastened twenty-four inches on center
onto frame. The plywood or equivalent material shall be fastened into
the openings by screw type nails or
lag screws.
(3) Maintenance. Upon effectively
boarding the structure, the owner
shall monitor and maintain the
structure
and
its
surrounding
premises in a safe, sanitary and
secured condition. Any portion of
the exterior structure that is deemed
to be potentially hazardous due to
deteriorated conditions, or to be
structurally
unsound,
shall
be
removed or treated in a manner so
as to eliminate the hazard. The exterior premises shall be maintained
free of high weeds, debris, junk
vehicles, and conditions that may
provide harborage for rodents. Failure of the owner to properly maintain the building in the above condition, will result in the structure
being deemed a public nuisance, and
scheduled for demolition.
(4) Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation
of the structure shall begin within
30 days of receiving a rehabilitation

The City Record
permit under Section 3105.06 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 unless the time period is
extended with permission from the
Director. If rehabilitation of the
effectively boarded structure does
not begin within this time period, or
if the rehabilitation permit is otherwise invalidated or revoked, then
the Director may declare that the
nuisance has not been abated and
schedule the structure for demolition.
(d) Examination and Condemnation.
(1) The Director is authorized to
examine or cause to be examined
every building or other structure
reported to be unsafe or damaged or
injurious to or a menace to the public, and shall make a written record
of the examination.
(2) The Director may designate as
a public nuisance those particular
structures or conditions found to be
unsafe under division (b) of this
section.
(3) The Director may also declare
that a nuisance structure which, due
to its advanced state of dilapidation,
substantial fire damage or structural infirmity, is an immediate hazard
to human life or health, may only
be abated by immediate repair and
rehabilitation to the minimum standards of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, applicable
City rules and regulations, the
Revised Code, and Ohio Administrative Code, including the Ohio Building Code, or by demolition.
(4) Whenever the Director finds a
vacant structure open to entry at
doors, windows or other points
accessible to the general public, he
may cause the structure to be
secured at those points of entry. The
Director shall be authorized at any
time to enter the premises to secure
the structure in order to lessen the
severity of the public nuisance. In
securing the structure, the Director
may call any department, division or
bureau of the City for whatever
assistance may be necessary, or
may, by private contract, secure
such structure and may notify Utilities to disconnect service to the
property under Section 3103.091. This
securing shall not be deemed to constitute “effective boarding” under
division (b) of this section, and it
does not abate the nuisance condition of an unsafe structure, as
declared under division (d) (2) of
this section, unless so declared in
writing
by
the
Director.
Later
notice, issued under division (e) (1)
below, shall include the fact that
the Director has found it necessary
to take appropriate action to secure
the structure.
(e) Notice of Violation.
(1) Whenever the Director finds a
building, structure or a portion of
those to be unsafe and determines it
or the property on which it is located to be a public nuisance as
defined in this Chapter, he shall forward by certified mail to the owner,
agent or person in control of the
building, structure or portion and to
any mortgagee of record a written
notice
of
violation
stating
the
defects in the building or structure.
The notice of violation shall require
the owner within a stated time to
abate the nuisance condition of the
building or structure by correction
of the violations and defects to the
minimum standards of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
applicable City rules and regulations, the Revised Code, and Ohio
Administrative Code, including the

869

5
Ohio Building Code, or by demolition and removal of the building,
structure, or a portion of those. The
notice also shall state that if the
nuisance is not abated within the
required time that the Director may
take appropriate action to repair,
remove, or otherwise abate the public nuisance and that the owner,
agent or person in control shall be
responsible for the costs. The handing of the violation notice to the
owner, agent or person in control of
the building, structure or a portion
of those shall be deemed actual
notice and is legal and valid service
and no other form of service is necessary.
(2) If the person to whom the
notice and order is addressed is not
found after a reasonable and diligent search, then the notice and
order shall be sent by certified mail
to his tax mailing address, if available, as indicated on the County tax
duplicate, and a copy of the notice
shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises to which it
relates. The mailing and posting
shall be deemed legal service of the
notice.
(3) An owner, agent or person in
control of the structure or building,
a mortgagee of record, or a lien
holder of record who has received a
notice of violation or a notice to
make corrections to the minimum
standards of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
applicable City rules and regulations, the Revised Code, and Ohio
Administrative Code, including the
Ohio Building Code, or to demolish
and remove, as provided for in this
section, shall inform prospective
purchasers,
vendees,
grantees,
assignees, lessees, or land contractees of the notice of violation or
the notice to make corrections, or to
demolish and remove. No person
shall transfer to a vendee, grantee,
assignee, lessee, land contractee or
any other transferee any interest in
a building, structure or a portion of
those after receiving a notice of violation to make corrections, or to
demolish and remove the same,
without first providing the transferee with a copy of the notice.
(4) A. No person, agent, firm or
corporation shall sell, by land contract or otherwise, any interest in
any structure or building without
furnishing the buyer, prior to the
sale a copy of any outstanding
notice or order from the City, including any notice of violation or any
outstanding notice to make corrections to the minimum standards of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, applicable City rules
and regulations, the Revised Code,
including the Ohio Building Code, or
any outstanding notice to demolish
and remove.
No buyer or grantee, by land contract or otherwise, shall obtain any
interest in any structure or building
without obtaining from the seller,
prior
to
sale,
the
documents
described above.
B. No person, agent, firm or corporation acting in the capacity of an
escrow agent in any real estate
transaction involving the sale of a
structure or building situated in the
City,
shall
disburse
any
funds
unless the provisions of this division
have been met.
C. Any buyer or grantee, by land
contract or otherwise, of a structure
or building, shall begin at the date
of transfer to comply with any
notice or order obtained or to be
obtained under this division and,

6
within ten days of the date of transfer, shall notify the Director, in writing, of the actions that will be taken
to comply. The Director may then
establish a reasonable time to comply.
(f) Vacating Buildings and Prohibiting Use. The Director may also
require in the notice issued under
division (e) (1) of this section that
the building, structure or a portion
of those be vacated, not be reoccupied, or used until the specified
repairs and improvements are completed, inspected, and approved by
the Director. The Director may
cause to be posted at each entrance
to the building or structure a notice
as follows: “THIS STRUCTURE IS
IN A DANGEROUS CONDITION AND
HAS BEEN CONDEMNED AND ITS
USE HAS BEEN PROHIBITED BY
THE DIRECTOR OF BUILDING
AND HOUSING.” The notice shall
remain posted until the required corrections are made or demolition is
completed. No person shall remove
the notice without written permission of the Director, nor shall any
person use or enter the building or
structure except for the purpose of
making the required corrections or
demolishing or effectively boarding
the building or structure, or securing the structure under division (d)
(4) of this section.
(g) Right to Appeal. The owner,
agent or person in control shall
have a right to appeal from the
notice and decision of the Director
as provided in this section and
appear before the Board of Building
Standards and Building Appeals at
a specified time and place to show
cause why he should not comply
with the notice. Any notice served
by the Director shall automatically
become a final order if a written
notice of appeal before the Board is
not filed in the office of the Board
within the time set forth in the
notice from the Director. In the
absence of an appeal, all actions
taken shall constitute a valid exercise of the police powers of the City
of Cleveland.
(h) Noncompliance with Notice.
(1) Director Authorized To Demolish, Remove, or Abate. In case the
owner, agent or person in control
fails, neglects or refuses to comply
with the notice to repair or rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove a
public nuisance or unsafe building,
structure or a portion of those, the
Director
may
take
appropriate
action to demolish and remove an
unsafe structure or to remove or
abate any condition that is defined
as a nuisance under this Chapter.
(2) Action by Director of Law.
The Director may advise the Director of Law of the facts in the case,
who
may
institute
appropriate
action in the court to cause correction of the violations and defects, or
demolition and removal, or effective
boarding of the building or structure pending rehabilitation.
(3) Rehabilitation Permits Not
Bar To Director's Action To Abate.
The securing of rehabilitation permits for the building or structure
shall not in and of itself bar the
Director from taking action to abate
the nuisance.
(4) Effective Boarding by Director. The Director may, with respect
to any condemned structure, also
take appropriate action to effectively board the structure, or to secure
it under division (d) (4) of this section. The Director shall specifically
state in writing his findings with
respect to the structure, and shall

The City Record
determine whether to secure or to
effectively board, based on factors
which may include the following:
the distance of the structure from
neighboring structures, the type of
structure, the extent to which the
structure is secured, the likelihood
of vandalism or arson, the extent of
the deterioration, the economic likelihood of eventual rehabilitation of
the structure, or cost of securing or
effectively boarding the structure.
Failure
To
Comply
with
(5)
Notice. In case the owner, agent or
person in control fails, neglects or
refuses to comply with the notice to
repair or rehabilitate, or to demolish
and remove a public nuisance or
unsafe building, structure or a portion of those, or to remove or abate
any other condition that is defined
as a nuisance under this Chapter,
the Director may take appropriate
action to take repair or maintenance
measures or cause Utility services to
be
disconnected
under
Section
3103.091 or to otherwise abate the
public nuisance. The Director shall
specifically state in writing the
findings with respect to the structure, and shall determine whether to
perform
repair
or
maintenance
based on factors which may include
the following: the distance of the
structure from neighboring structures, the type of structure, the
extent of deterioration, the likelihood of vandalism or arson, the economic likelihood of eventual complete rehabilitation of the structure,
the cost of repair or maintenance.
(6) Notice of Intent To Demolish.
Except as provided in division (1)
of this section, the Director shall
give written notice informing the
owner, agent, or person in control,
mortgagee of record and lien holders of record of the City’s intention
to demolish and remove the unsafe
building or structure at least 30
days before the intended action by
the City. The notice may be effective concurrently with the violation
notice. A condemned structure, once
effectively boarded by the owner
pending rehabilitation that later
becomes open to entry, may then be
demolished and removed, subject to
the Director giving written notice as
stated in divisions (e) (1) and (h)
of this section, upon a finding by
the Director that the structure can
no longer be effectively boarded.
(i) Junk Motor Vehicle Removal.
(1) Notice. The Director shall send
written notice, by certified mail
with return receipt requested, to the
person having the right of possession of the property on which a junk
motor vehicle, as defined in this
Chapter, is left. This notice shall
notify the person having right of
possession of the property that within ten days of mailing of the notice,
the junk motor vehicle either shall
be covered by being housed in a
garage or other suitable structure or
removed from the property. The
notice shall also be posted in a conspicuous place on the property.
Director
Authorized
To
(2)
Remove Junk Motor Vehicles. The
Director is authorized to provide for
and order the removal of a junk
motor vehicle when the junk motor
vehicle has not been either covered
by being housed in a garage or
other suitable structure or removed
from the property, within ten days
of the date of mailing and posting
of the notice as set forth above.
(j) Cases of Emergency. In cases
of emergency that, in the opinion of
the Director, involve immediate danger to human life or health, the

870

May 7, 2008
Director shall promptly cause the
building, structure or a portion of
those to be made safe or removed.
For this purpose he may at once
enter the structure or land on which
it stands, or any abutting land or
structure, with assistance and at the
cost as he deems necessary. He may
request the Director of Public Safety to enforce the orders he gives
that are necessary to cause the
building, structure or a portion of
those to be made safe or removed.
The Director of Public Safety has
the authority to enforce the orders.
He may order adjacent structures
and premises to be vacated, and protect the public by an appropriate
fence or other means as may be necessary, and for this purpose may
close a public or private way.
(k) Costs.
(1) Any and all expenses or costs
incurred under this section for the
removal, repair, alteration, securing
or boarding of a building or structure or for abating any other nuisance shall be paid by the owner of
such building or structure, except
when such expenses or costs are
incurred with respect to a government or school building owned by a
governmental entity or political subdivision and are funded by federal
money. In the case of a junk motor
vehicle, any and all expenses or
costs incurred under this section to
remove the vehicle shall be paid by
the person having the right of possession of the premises where the
vehicle is located.
(2) Whenever an inspection is
made after the compliance date stated on a Notice of Violation of the
Building Code, the Housing Code, or
the Zoning Code or after a compliance date determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction to determine
whether the violation has been
remedied and the violation has not
been remedied, or an additional permit is obtained for work previously
permitted and the original permit
has expired or was appropriately
voided, a fee of $100.00 shall be
charged for each inspection, except
that this fee shall not apply to onefamily and two-family owner-occupied dwelling structures.
(3) If within 30 days from the
date the Director of Building and
Housing
sends
a
statement
of
charges and costs incurred, the
owner fails to pay for the costs of
removal, repair, alteration, securing
or boarding or of inspections of violations that have not been remedied,
or the person having possession
fails to pay for the cost of removing a junk vehicle, the Director may
certify the amount to the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses,
including collection agency fees.
The Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses may make written
return to the County Auditor of the
action under this section with a
statement of the charges for services, the amount paid for the performing of labor and a proper
description of the premises. Certification to the County Auditor is for
the purpose of making expenses and
costs a lien upon the lands, to be
collected
as
other
taxes
and
returned to the City with the General Fund, with special accounting
under Section 715.261 of the Revised
Code.
(4) Notwithstanding the method of
collection set forth in this division,
the Director of Law may take any
action necessary to collect the costs
of demolition, boarding, or other nuisance abatement from the owner or
other responsible party.

May 7, 2008
Section 3103.99 Penalty
(a) Whoever violates any provision of this Building Code for which
no other penalty is provided or any
rule or regulation or order promulgated thereunder, or any code adopted herein, or fails to comply with
the lawful order issued pursuant
thereto is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day during
which noncompliance or a violation
continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(b) Whoever violates Sections
3103.10,
3103.091,
3105.01,
3105.02,
3105.05,
3109.11,
3125.01,
3101.11,
3113.03, 3113.10, 3113.16 or division
(e) of Section 3101.10 as a first
offense of those sections shall be
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. In
addition to any other method of
enforcement provided for in this
chapter, the above listed minor misdemeanors may be enforced by the
issuance of a citation in compliance
with Rule 4.1 of the Ohio Rules of
Criminal Procedure.
(c) Organizations convicted of an
offense shall be fined as provided
by RC 2901.23 and 2929.31.
(d) Whoever violates Sections
3101.11,
3103.091,
3113.03,
3113.10,
3113.16 or division (e) of Section
3101.10 as a second offense of those
sections shall be guilty of a fourth
degree misdemeanor. Whoever violates
Sections
3101.11,
3103.091,
3113.03, 3113.10, 3113.16 or division
(e) of Section 3101.10 as a third or
subsequent offense of those sections
shall be guilty of a first degree misdemeanor.
(e) A court of competent jurisdiction may require whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this Building Code, to pay
to the City's Department of Building and Housing, the fee for inspection of violations that have not been
remedied, which fee is described in
Sections 3103.09 and 3105.26, and the
expenses or costs incurred under
Section 3103.09 for the removal,
repair, alteration, securing or boarding of a building or structure and
under Section 3103.091 for termination of utility services.
Section 3. That existing Sections
3103.09 and 3103.99, as amended by
Ordinance No. 903-06, passed May 22,
2006
and
Ordinance
No.
899-06,
passed August 9, 2006, are repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities,
Building
and
Housing,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Utilities, Community and Economic
Development, Legislation, Finance.
Without objection, substitute ordinance agreed to. Ordinance No. 111207 laid on the table, pursuant to the
Rules of Council.
Ord. No. 678-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with
CedarCrestone, Inc. for professional
services necessary to maintain and
support the PeopleSoft Financial
Management System, for a period of
one year, with three one-year options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Finance.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with CedarCrestone, Inc. for professional services necessary to maintain and support the PeopleSoft Financial Management System, in the total sum
not to exceed $36,000, for the Department of Finance, for a period of one
year, with three one-year options to
renew, exercisable by the Director
of Finance. The contract or contracts shall be paid from Fund No.
01-151100-632000, Request No. 181508.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 680-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials necessary for analysis,
identification, storage, remediation,
transportation, recycling and disposal of various chemicals, hazardous waste products and other
non-hazardous and recyclable waste
materials for the Division of Water,
Cleveland Public Power, and Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary for
analysis,
identification,
storage,
remediation,
transportation,
recycling and disposal of various chemicals, hazardous waste products and
other non-hazardous and recyclable
waste materials, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Divisions of Water, Cleveland Public
Power, and Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board
of Control determines. Alternate
bids for a period less than the specified term may be taken if desired
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appro-

871

7
priation accounts and the Director
of Public Utilities shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 182035)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Director of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committes
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 681-08.
By Council Members Zone, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 523.21 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2068-05,
passed November 21, 2005; relating
to the Cleveland Public Power energy adjustment charge.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the rates, rules
and regulations relating to the operation of the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, for electric service, fixed
by the Board of Control by the adoption of Resolution No. ____, on
__________, 200__, are approved.
Section 2. That Section 523.21 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
2068-05,
passed
November 21, 2005, is amended to
read as follows:
Section 523.21 Energy Adjustment
Charge
(a) An additional incremental
charge for excess fuel and power
production
and
purchase
power
costs may be applied to the rates
prescribed in Sections 523.02 to
523.065 and any other rate schedule
as may be adopted by the City.
(b) The incremental charge shall
be based on the fuel and purchase
power cost per kilowatt hour delivered
calculated
under
divisions
(c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c) (1) The fuel and purchase
power cost per kilowatt hour sold to
residential ratepayers shall be determined by dividing the sum of the
cost of the kilowatt hours purchased
from the Power Authority of the
State of New York and the average
cost of kilowatt hours purchased
from other sources needed to supply
the residential customers by the

8
total kilowatt hours distributed to
residential customers. For the period ending December 31, 2010, the
incremental charge calculated herein shall be adjusted by subtracting
15 mils per kilowatt hour for residential customers who provide the
Division of Cleveland Public Power
with a certificate of reduction of
taxes obtained pursuant to the
Homestead Exemption provisions of
Sections 323.151 through 323.157 of
the Revised Code, and 9.75 mils per
kilowatt hour for all other residential customers. Beginning on January 1, 2011, the incremental charge
for all residential customers shall be
adjusted by subtracting 15 mils per
kilowatt hour.
(2) Except as provided in Section
523.048, the fuel and purchase power
cost per kilowatt hour sold to all
ratepayers, other than residential
ratepayers,
during
the
twelve
months of the year, shall be determined by dividing the sum of the
total cost of coal, oil, gas and purchase power by the total kilowatt
hours distributed, except that the
computation shall exclude the cost
of PASNY power and the amount of
PASNY power allocable to kilowatt
hours distributed, and shall exclude
the costs of all purchase power and
kilowatt
hours
from
a
specific
source or sources purchased by the
Division for distribution to ratepayers pursuant to Sections 523.048 and
523.049. For the period ending December 31, 2010, the incremental
charge calculated herein shall be
adjusted by subtracting 3.0 mils per
kilowatt hour. Beginning on January 1, 2011, such incremental charge
shall be adjusted by subtracting 15
mils per kilowatt hour.
(d) At the end of each month, the
Division of Cleveland Public Power
shall determine the excess fuel and
power charge during such month as
herein provided.
Section 3. That existing Section
523.21 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 2068-05, passed
November 21, 2005, is repealed.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on
Public
Utilities,
Legislation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 682-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to approve the street lighting rate for
street lights to be acquired from
The Cleveland Electric Illuminating
Company under the authority of
Ordinance No. 1925-07, passed December 10, 2007.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the rates, rules
and regulations relating to the operation of the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, for electric service, fixed
by the Board of Control by the adop-

The City Record
tion of Resolution No. _____, on
__________, 200__, are approved.
Section 2. That the rate to be
charged by Cleveland Public Power
(CPP) for street lighting service
supplied through street lights acquired by CPP from The Cleveland
Electric Illuminating Company (CEI)
under the authority of Ordinance.
No. 1925-07, passed December 10,
2007, shall be determined, for the
first eight (8) years following the
transfer date, by reference to the
street lighting rates approved by
the Public Utilities Commission of
Ohio (PUCO), Original Sheet No. 43,
8th Revised, effective January 11,
2008, and shall be the sum of the
CEI Distribution Charge (which
shall not be increased by CPP), the
CEI Generation Charge (which shall
be subject to any changes approved
by the PUCO), and any applicable
CEI riders, charges, or discounts
charged or credited to CPP. Beginning eight (8) years after the transfer date, CPP shall charge the thencurrent CPP standard street lighting
rate for the transferred street lighting facilities.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 683-08.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Parks, Recreation and Properties and Finance to
enter into one or more contracts
with the Cleveland Board of Education to conduct recreational, cultural, and extracurricular programs for
the benefit of school children during
the 2007-08 school year.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1025-A-95, passed June 28, 1995, tax
revenues from levying the parking
facility tax and increases in the
motor vehicle lessor tax and the
admission tax can be used to fund
recreational, cultural, and extracurricular programs within the Cleveland School system; and
Whereas, the Joint Board established by Ordinance No. 1025-A-95
has recommended that a portion of
the tax proceeds be used to fund a
number of recreational, cultural, and
extracurricular programs for City
school children during the 2007-08
school year, including dance, drama,
instrumental, vocal, cheerleading,
aquatic, sports, and academic enrichment programs; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Parks, Recreation and Properties
and Finance are authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Board of Education of the Cleveland
City School District to conduct various recreational, cultural and extracurricular programs for the benefit
of City school children during the
2007-08 school year, under the program
description contained in File No. 683-

872

May 7, 2008
08-A. The cost of the contract or contracts shall not exceed $2,000,000
and shall be payable from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
proceeds of the taxes levied under
Ordinance No. 1025-A-95, passed June
28, 1995, under terms and conditions
as are acceptable to the Director of
Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 684-08.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of renovating
and repairing Public Auditorium,
which includes Music Hall and Public Hall, and renovating and repairing the exhibit halls and meeting
rooms of the Convention Center;
authorizing the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement; authorizing the Director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement; and to enter into various written standard purchase and
requirement contracts needed in connection with the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement of renovating and repairing Public Auditorium, which includes Music Hall
and Public Hall, and renovating and
repairing the exhibit halls and meeting rooms of the Convention Center,
(the “Improvement”), for the Division of Convention Center and Stadium Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, by one or more
contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding for a gross
price for the Improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for the making of the public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder or bidders after
competitive bidding for a gross
price for the Improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
the Improvement may be treated as
a separate Improvement, and each,
or any combination, of the trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate contract for a gross price.
On request of the director the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit
and overhead, for all items constituting units of the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to employ by contract or

May 7, 2008
contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
design the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to make one or more
written standard purchase contracts
and written requirement contracts
under the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
the period of requirements to be
determined by the director, for the
necessary items of materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary to construct the Improvement,
including labor and materials if necessary for installation, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Division of Convention Center and Stadium, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Bids shall be taken in a manner
that permits an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines.
Section 5. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That the cost of the contracts authorized shall be paid from
Fund No. 11 SF 006, Request No.
186609.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City

The City Record
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 685-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Johnson and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 15-08, passed January 7, 2008,
relating to authorizing the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
to enter into a grant agreement with
the fiscal agent of the African
American Cultural Garden Society,
to assist in establishing and developing the African American Cultural Garden.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 15-08, passed
January 7, 2008, are amended to
read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a
grant agreement with the Famicos
Foundation, as the fiscal agent of
the African American Cultural Garden Society, to assist in establishing
and developing the African American Cultural Garden.
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to enter into a grant
agreement with the Famicos Foundation, as the fiscal agent of the
African American Cultural Garden
Society, to assist in establishing and
developing the African American
Cultural Garden.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 15-08,
passed January 7, 2008, are repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 686-08.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to accept a grant
from the Ohio Public Works Commission for rehabilitating Bellaire
Road between West 130th Street and
West 117th Street; authorizing the
Director of Public Service to hire
one or more consultants for design,
engineering and construction services; determining the method of
making the public improvement of
rehabilitating Bellaire Road; authorizing the Director to enter into one
or more public improvement contracts
for
the
making
of
the
improvement; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire for right-of-way purposes real property necessary to
make the public improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

873

9
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is
authorized to accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $2,492,000,
from the Ohio Public Works Commission, acting by and through its
Director
to
finance
the
public
improvement of rehabilitating Bellaire Road between West 130th
Street and West 117th Street (the
“Improvement”); that the Mayor is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in this
ordinance.
Section 2. That the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the approximate sum of $620,000, from Fund
No. 20 SF 520, is approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional design,
engineering and construction services necessary to design and to provide engineering and construction
services for the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Service from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Service for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Service and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 4. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement as
described in Section 1 of this ordinance, for the Department of Public
Service, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
on a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis.
Section 6. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized to acquire for right-of-way purposes real property necessary to
make the Improvement. The consideration to be paid for the property
shall not exceed fair market value.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to execute on behalf of the City all doc-

10
uments necessary to acquire property and to employ and pay all fees
for
title
companies,
surveys,
escrows, appraiser, and all other
costs necessary for the acquisition
of the property.
Section 8. That the costs of the
contracts and property acquisition
authorized shall be paid from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance, the cash match,
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 52 SF 001, and
54 SF 001, Request No. 175554.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 687-08.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brancatelli, White, Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to accept a grant
from the Ohio Public Works Commission for rehabilitating Broadway
Avenue from I-77 to the east corporation line; authorizing the Director
of Public Service to hire one or more
consultants for design, engineering
and construction services; determining the method of making the public improvement of rehabilitating
Broadway Avenue; authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement;
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies to acquire
for right-of-way purposes real property necessary to make the public
improvement; and authorizing the
Director to enter into a Local Project Administration Agreement with
the Ohio Department of Transportation for the improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is
authorized to accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $5,983,000,
from the Ohio Public Works Commission, acting by and through its
Director to finance the public improvement of rehabilitating Broadway Avenue from I-77 to the east
corporation line (the “Improvement”);
that the Mayor is authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 2. That the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the approximate sum of $1,300,000, from Fund
No. 20 SF 520, is approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in

The City Record
order to provide professional design,
engineering and construction services necessary to design and to provide engineering and construction
services for the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Service from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Service for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Service and certified by the Director
of Finance.
Section 4. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement as
described in Section 1 of this ordinance, for the Department of Public
Service, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
on a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis.
Section 6. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized to acquire for right-of-way purposes real property necessary to
make the Improvement. The consideration to be paid for the property
shall not exceed fair market value.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to execute on behalf of the City all documents necessary to acquire property
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraiser, and all other costs necessary for the acquisition of the property.
Section 8. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into a Local Project Administration
Agreement with the Ohio Department of Transportation to assist
with financing the Improvement.
Section 9. That the costs of the
contracts and property acquisition
authorized shall be paid from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance, the cash match,
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 52 SF 001, and
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the funds received from the
Ohio Department of Transportation
for the Improvement and are appropriated for this purpose, Request No.
175548.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

874

May 7, 2008
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 688-08.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Mayor to accept a grant
from the Ohio Public Works Commission for rehabilitating East 30th
Street from Woodland Avenue to St.
Clair Avenue; authorizing the Director of Public Service to hire one or
more consultants for design, engineering and construction services;
determining the method of making
the public improvement of rehabilitating East 30th Street; authorizing
the Director to enter into one or
more public improvement contracts
for the making of the improvement;
and authorizing the Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies
to
acquire for right-of-way purposes
real property necessary to make the
public improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Mayor is
authorized to accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $2,869,476,
from the Ohio Public Works Commission, acting by and through its
Director
to
finance
the
public
improvement of rehabilitating East
30th Street from Woodland Avenue
to St. Clair Avenue (the “Improvement”); that the Mayor is authorized
to file all papers and execute all
documents necessary to receive the
funds under the grant; and that the
funds are appropriated for the purposes described in this ordinance.
Section 2. That the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the approximate sum of $640,000, from Fund
No. 20 SF 520, is approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional design,
engineering and construction services necessary to design and to provide engineering and construction
services for the Improvement.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Service from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Service for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract or contracts shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Public Service and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 4. That, under Section 167
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, this Council determines to
make the public improvement as
described in Section 1 of this ordinance, for the Department of Public

May 7, 2008
Service, by one or more contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder or bidders after competitive
bidding on a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts for the
making of the public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
or bidders after competitive bidding
on a unit basis for the improvement,
provided, however, that each separate trade and each distinct component part of the improvement may
be treated as a separate improvement, and each, or any combination,
of the trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract on
a unit basis.
Section 6. That notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized to acquire for right-of-way purposes real property necessary to
make the Improvement. The consideration to be paid for the property
shall not exceed fair market value.
Section 7. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City all documents
necessary to acquire property and to
employ and pay all fees for title companies, surveys, escrows, appraiser,
and all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of the property.
Section 8. That the costs of the
contracts and property acquisition
authorized shall be paid from the
fund or funds to which are credited
the grant proceeds accepted under
this ordinance, the cash match,
Fund Nos. 20 SF 520, 52 SF 001,
Request No. 175549.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 689-08.
By Council Members Polensek,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
employ one or more professional
consultants for design, engineering,
and construction services necessary
to implement the Waterloo Streetscape project, and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire for right-of-way purposes such real property necessary
to implement the project; and authorizing the Director to apply for and
accept one or more grants from public entities and from the State of
Ohio through the Northeast Ohio
Area Coordinating Agency for the
project.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose

The City Record
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services for design, engineering, and
construction services necessary to
implement the Waterloo Streetscape
project (the “Project”).
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Service from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Service for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Service, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies is authorized to acquire for right-of-way
purposes such real property as is
necessary to implement the Project.
The consideration to be paid for the
property shall not exceed fair market value.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to execute on behalf of the City all documents necessary to acquire such
property and to employ and pay all
fees for title companies, surveys,
escrows, appraisers, and all other
costs necessary for the acquisition
of the property.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to apply
for and accept grants from public
entities and from the State of Ohio
through the Northeast Ohio Area
Coordinating Agency for the purpose of implementing the Project.
The Director is further authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds accepted under this ordinance
and, upon acceptance of the funds
by the Director, they shall be appropriated for the purposes of this ordinance.
Section 5. That the cost of the contract or contracts and land acquisition authorized shall be paid from
Fund No. 20 SF 520, Request No.
175551.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 690-08.
By Council Members Coats, Brady
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 10 of Ordinance No. 2332-03,
passed December 15, 2003, relating
to giving consent of the City of
Cleveland for the rehabilitation of
Belvoir Boulevard between Euclid
Avenue and the South Euclid corporation line, authorizing relative agreements, applying for and accepting
County Motor Vehicle License Tax

875

11
funds, and causing payment of the
City’s share to the County for the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 10 of Ordinance No. 2332-03, passed December
15, 2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 10. That this Council
authorizes payment to the County of
the City’s share of the Improvement
from Fund Nos. 20 SF 364, 20 SF 373,
20 SF 380, 20 SF 383, 20 SF 394, and
from the fund or funds to which are
credited the proceeds of the subordinated income tax bonds authorized
by Ordinance No. 121-08, passed February 25, 2008, if the City sells such
bonds, Request Nos. 138347 and
175538.
Section 2. That existing Section 10
of Ordinance No. 2332-03, passed
December 15, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 691-08.
By Council Members Keane, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 2141-05, passed February 13,
2006, relating to the acquisition of
certain easement interests for The
City Bank Investment Company for
the public improvement of improving the corner of Rocky River Drive
and Lorain Road.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2141-05,
passed
February
13,
2006,
are
amended to read as follows:
An Emergency Ordinance authorizing the acquisition of certain
easement interests from The City
Bank Investment Company for the
public improvement of constructing
streetscape and other improvements
on the corner of Rocky River Drive
and Lorain Road, for the Department of Public Service.
Section 1. Notwithstanding and as
an exception to the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, that
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to acquire
certain easement rights from The
City Bank Investment Company in
and to the premises hereinafter
described to construct streetscape
and other improvements on the corner of Rocky River Drive and
Lorain Road, more fully described
as follows:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Rockport Township Section
No. 13. Also being part of the land

12
conveyed to The City Bank Investment Company, Ltd. as recorded in
Volume 97-04221, Page 45 of the
Cuyahoga County Land Records,
being more definitely described as
follows;
Commencing at the intersection of
the centerline of Rocky River Drive
(width varies) and the centerline of
Lorain Road (width varies);
Thence, along the centerline of
Rocky River Drive, North 10° 06'
56" East, 190.00 feet;
Thence, leaving said centerline,
North 76° 10' 49" East, 32.82 feet to
the easterly right of way of Rocky
River Drive at the northwesterly
corner of said land conveyed to The
City Bank Investment Company,
Ltd. and the True Point of Beginning
for
the
easement
herein
described;
Thence, along the northerly line
of said land conveyed to The City
Bank Investment Company, Ltd.,
North 76° 10' 49" East, 11.04 feet;
Thence, leaving said northerly
line, South 10° 06' 55" West, 16.77
feet;
Thence North 79° 53' 05" West,
0.80 feet;
Thence South 10° 06' 55" West,
43.80 feet;
Thence South 79° 53' 05" East,
0.80 feet;
Thence South 10° 06' 55" West,
59.33 feet;
Thence South 46° 33' 02" East,
12.53 feet;
Thence North 76° 17' 15" East,
12.93 feet;
Thence South 13° 42' 45" East,
0.67 feet;
Thence North 76° 17' 15" East,
25.12 feet;
Thence North 13° 42' 45" West,
0.67 feet;
Thence North 76° 22' 46" East,
31.55 feet to the easterly line of said
land conveyed to The City Bank
Investment Company, Ltd;
Thence, along said easterly line of
land conveyed to The City Bank
Investment Company, Ltd., South 10°
06’ 56” West, 16.41 feet to the
northerly right of way of Lorain
Road;
Thence, along said right of way,
South 76° 10’ 49” West, 92.18 feet to
the easterly right of way of Rocky
River Drive;
Thence, along said easterly right
of way, North 10° 06’ 56” East, 148.04
feet to the point of beginning.
Containing within said bounds
0.0627 acres (2,729 square feet) of
land as surveyed by KS Associates,
Inc. under the supervision of Trevor
A. Bixler, Professional Surveyor, No.
7730 in November of 2005.
Bearings are based on monuments
OM 711 and OM 1416 of the Cleveland
Regional
Geodetic
Survey
(CRGS).
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 214105, passed February 13, 2006, are
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 692-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Brady and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of West 7th Street.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1269-07, adopted October 1, 2007, this
Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of West 7th Street;
and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on April 9, 2008, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
declares that the following described real property is vacated:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original One-Hundred Acre Lot No.
282 and further bounded and described as follows:
BEGINNING at the intersection of
the centerlines of West 7th Street
(width varies) and University Court
(20 feet wide); Thence South 52° 33'
40" West along the centerline of
University Court, 45.00 feet to a
point; Thence South 37° 29' 21"
East, 10.00 feet to the intersection of
the southeasterly right of way of
University Court and the southwesterly right of way of West 7th Street
and the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF
BEGINNING of the premises described herein; Thence South 37° 29’
21” East along the southwesterly
right of way of West 7th Street,
10.00 feet to a point; Thence North
52° 33' 40" East, 14.50 feet to a
point; Thence North 37° 29' 21"
West, 10.00 feet to a point; Thence
South 52° 33' 40" West, 14.50 feet to
the PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BEGINNING and containing 0.0033 acres of
land as surveyed and described by
Edward B. Dudley, P.S. 6747 in
March of 2007, being the same, more
or less but subject to all legal highways, reservations, restrictions, and
easements of record. BASIS OF
BEARINGS: The Centerline of West
7th Street as North 37° 29' 21" West
as shown on the Plat of Vacation
recorded in Volume 350 Page 07 of
C.C.M.R.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for Dominion East Ohio Gas
and AT&T.
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by
Dominion East Ohio Gas, AT&T and
the City of Cleveland.

876

May 7, 2008
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 693-08.
By Council Members Lewis, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Chester Avenue N.E.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1423-07, adopted December 10, 2007,
this Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of Chester Avenue
N.E.; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the
abutting
property
owners
affected by the resolution which
stated a time and place when objections would be heard before the
Board of Revision of Assessments;
and
Whereas, on April 9, 2008, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 399 and
further bounded and described as
follows: Beginning at the intersection of the westerly line of East
82nd Street, formerly Genesee Avenue, (66 feet wide) with the northerly line of Chester Avenue (width
varies) as dedicated in Volume 143
of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Course 1: thence along the southerly prolongation of the westerly
line of East 82nd Street, South 00°
13’ 14” West, a distance of 40.09 feet;
Course 2: thence North 82° 30' 06"
West, a distance of 288.80 feet to the
intersection of the easterly line of
East 81 Street, formerly Princeton
Street, (45 feet wide) as established
by Appropriation Proceedings in
Docket 32, No. 8073 Cuyahoga County Probate Court with the northerly
line of Chester Avenue as aforesaid;

May 7, 2008
Course 3: thence along the northerly line of Chester Avenue, North
89° 1' 13" East, a distance of 286.49
feet to the place of beginning and
containing 0.1318 acre of land according to a survey by Matthew C.
Neff, Ohio Professional Surveyor
#7315, of the M Neff Design Group
dated November 21, 2006, be the
same more or less but subject to all
legal highways.
Note: Bearings shown hereon are
to an assumed meridian and are
used to denote angles only. Monuments described as 5/8" iron pins
set are 5/8" diameter by 30" long
rebar with cap stamped “M NEFF
7315”.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for Dominion East Ohio Gas.
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by
Dominion East Ohio Gas and the
City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 694-08.
By
Council
Members
Santiago,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of West 27th Place and a
portion of Oriole Court.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1700-07, adopted December 10, 2007,
this Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of West 27th Place
and a portion of Oriole Court.; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on April 9, 2008, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original 100 Acre Lot No. 399 and
further bounded and described as
follows: Beginning at the intersection of the westerly line of East
82nd Street, formerly Genesee Avenue, (66 feet wide) with the northerly line of Chester Avenue (width
varies) as dedicated in Volume 143
of Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Course 1: thence along the southerly prolongation of the westerly
line of East 82nd Street, South 00°
13’ 14” West, a distance of 40.09 feet;
Course 2: thence North 82° 30' 06"
West, a distance of 288.80 feet to the
intersection of the easterly line of
East 81 Street, formerly Princeton
Street, (45 feet wide) as established
by Appropriation Proceedings in
Docket 32, No. 8073 Cuyahoga County Probate Court with the northerly
line of Chester Avenue as aforesaid;
Course 3: thence along the northerly line of Chester Avenue, North
89° 1' 13" East, a distance of 286.49
feet to the place of beginning and
containing 0.1318 acre of land according to a survey by Matthew C.
Neff, Ohio Professional Surveyor
#7315, of the M Neff Design Group
dated November 21, 2006, be the
same more or less but subject to all
legal highways.
Note: Bearings shown hereon are
to an assumed meridian and are
used to denote angles only. Monuments described as 5/8" iron pins
set are 5/8" diameter by 30" long
rebar with cap stamped “M NEFF
7315”.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That there is reserved
to the City of Cleveland an easement of full width as described
above for Dominion East Ohio Gas.
That no structures shall be erected on the premises described in this
easement except those constructed
under the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by
Dominion East Ohio Gas and the
City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 695-08.
By
Council
Members
Sweeney,
Brady and Cimperman (by departmental request).

877

13
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Justin Avenue S.W.
Whereas, under Resolution No.
1270-07, adopted October 1, 2007 this
Council declared its intention to
vacate a portion of Justin Avenue
S.W.; and
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above vacation was served on
the abutting property owners affected by the resolution which stated a
time and place when objections
would be heard before the Board of
Revision of Assessments; and
Whereas, on April 9, 2008, the
Board of Revision of Assessments
approved the above vacation under
the provisions of Section 176 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating a portion of the above and that
it will not be detrimental to the general interest and that it should be
made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares that the following described
real property is vacated:
Being all that portion of Justin
Avenue S.W. (25 feet wide) extending Westerly from the westerly line
of West 158th Street (50 feet wide)
to the westerly line of the Lynhurst
Allotment Re-Subdivision No. 1 as
shown by the recorded plat Volume
147 Page 28 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records.
Legal Description approved by
Greg Esber, Section Chief, Plats,
Surveys and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That provided all required approvals have been obtained, the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction is directed
to record the vacation plat in the
office of the Recorder of Cuyahoga
County.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit a copy of
this ordinance to the Auditor of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 696-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to amend Contract No. 66986
with the Westside Industrial Retention and Expansion Network to provide for continued services under
the grant.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 53707, passed May 7, 2007, this Council,
among other things, authorized the
Director of Economic Development
to enter into a grant agreement with
the Westside Industrial Retention
and Expansion network (“WireNet”)
to provide financial assistance for

14
the administration and staffing of
the Cleveland Industrial Retention
Initiative in an amount not to
exceed $400,000; and
Whereas, continued services are
desired; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to amend Contract No. 66986
with the Westside Industrial Retention and Expansion Network to provide for continued services under
the grant.
Section 2. That the cost of the
amendment shall not exceed $66,000
and shall be paid from Fund No. 17
SF 652, Request Nos. 103713 and
103740.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 697-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, and Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 461-06, passed June
5, 2006; and to amend the title, the
first whereas clause, and Section 1
of Ordinance No. 1825-07, passed
December
3,
2007,
relating
to
authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into
various types of loan or grant
agreements, or any combination,
for Economic Development financial assistance in amounts not to
exceed $250,000.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
461-06, passed June 5, 2006, this
Council authorized the Director of
Economic Development to enter
into loan agreements for economic
development financial assistance in
amounts not to exceed $250,000
until December 31, 2007; and
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
1825-07, passed December 3, 2007,
this Council continued the authority
granted in Ord. No. 461-06 until
December 31, 2009; and
Whereas, the Director of Economic Development wishes to enhance the program by including
grants and forgivable loans, in addition to loans, or any combination of
the three, as eligible types of economic development financial assistance granted under these ordinances; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title, and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No. 46106, passed June 5, 2006, are amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic

The City Record
Development to enter into various
types of loan or grant agreements,
or any combination, for Economic
Development financial assistance
in amounts not to exceed $250,000.
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into various types of
loan or grant agreements, or any
combination, for economic development
financial
assistance
in
amounts not to exceed $250,000 in
principal for each project if the
terms of any type of loan or grant
agreement, or any combination,
entered into under this ordinance
are approved by the Cleveland
Citywide Development Corporation
and if the Mayor and the Council
Member in whose ward the project
for which economic development
financial assistance is being given
is located submit a letter of support for the project. That the Director of Economic Development shall
notify
the
Council
Member
in
whose ward the project will occur
before it has been approved by the
Cleveland Citywide Development
Corporation.
Section 2. That the loan or grant
agreements shall be paid from Fund
Nos. 17 SF 008 (UDAG Repayments),
10 SF 501 (NDIF Repayments), 17
SF 003 (SBRL) and 12 SF 954
(EDA).
Section 2. That the existing title,
and Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance
No. 461-06, passed June 5, 2006, are
repealed.
Section 3. That the title, the first
whereas clause, and Section 1 of
Ordinance No. 1825-07, passed December 3, 2007, are amended to read
as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to continue to enter into various types of loan or grant agreements, or any combination, for Economic Development financial assistance in amounts not to exceed
$250,000 past December 31, 2007 until
December 31, 2009.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 46106, passed June 5, 2006, this Council
authorized the Director of Economic Development to enter into various
types of loan or grant agreements,
or any combination, for Economic
Development financial assistance in
amounts not to exceed $250,000; and
Section 1. That this Council authorizes
the
Director
of
Economic
Development to continue to enter
into various types of loan or grant
agreements, or any combination,
authorized under Ordinance No. 46106, passed June 5, 2006 for Economic Development financial assistance
in amounts not to exceed $250,000
past December 31, 2007 until December 31, 2009.
Section 4. That the existing title,
the first whereas clause, and Section
1 of Ordinance No. 1825-07, passed
December 3, 2007, are repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

878

May 7, 2008
Ord. No. 698-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
exercise an option to renew Contract
No. 67144 with Action Automatics,
Inc. to provide for parts necessary
to maintain and repair automatic
doors, including labor and installation, if necessary, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Whereas, under Ordinance No. 19307, passed March 12, 2007, this Council authorized the Director of Port
Control to enter into Contract No.
67144 with Action Automatics, Inc.
to provide for parts necessary to
maintain
and
repair
automatic
doors, including labor and installation, if necessary, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 193-07
requires further legislation before
exercising the option to renew on
this contract; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to exercise the option to renew Contract
No. 67144 for an additional year at
a cost not to exceed $60,000 with
Action Automatics, Inc., to provide
for parts necessary to maintain and
repair automatic doors, including
labor and installation, if necessary,
for the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control. This
ordinance constitutes the additional
legislative authority required by
Ordinance No. 193-07 to exercise this
option.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 699-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
solicit proposals from car rental
companies for use and occupancy of
individual locations within the Customer Facility located at the Remote
Rental Car Facility at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and
use and occupancy of individual
locations at Burke Lakefront Airport to operate and maintain car
rental agencies, including support
space, if necessary; and to enter into
various leases or leases by way of
concession with car rental companies at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and at Burke Lakefront Airport, for a period of five
years with one option to renew for
an additional five year period, after
obtaining
additional
legislative
authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

May 7, 2008
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to solicit
proposals from car rental companies
for the use and occupancy of individual locations within the Customer Area located at the Remote
Rental Car Facility at Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport
(“CHIA”) to operate and maintain
car rental agencies and for support
functions. The awards to car rental
companies at CHIA shall be by resolution of the Board of Control.
Section 2. That the Director is
authorized to enter into one or more
leases or leases by way of concession (the “CHIA Leases”) with various car rental companies (the
“CHIA Lessees”) to operate and
maintain car rental agencies at
CHIA under terms and conditions to
be determined by the Board of Control. The CHIA Leases shall be for
a term of five (5) years, with one
option to renew exercisable by the
Director of Port Control, for an additional five-year period after receiving additional legislative authority
and under terms and conditions to
be determined by the Board of Control, and may provide for a Remote
Rental Car Shuttle System for pickup
and
drop-off
of
customers
between CHIA and the Remote
Rental Car Facility to be operated
by
a
consortium
of
the
CHIA
Lessees and for all support services
relating to the Remote Rental Car
facility including signage, snow
removal, facility maintenance and
grass cutting to be the responsibility of a consortium of the CHIA
Lessees. The Director and the CHIA
Lessees shall develop necessary service
standards
for
the
Remote
Rental Car Shuttle System at CHIA.
CHIA Lessees shall pay a privilege
fee of 10% of Gross Revenues to
CHIA. Further, CHIA Lessees shall
pay rent to CHIA for the use and
occupancy of counter and back
office space and for the use of
ready/ return stalls.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to solicit
proposals from car rental companies
for use and occupancy of individual
locations at Burke Lakefront Airport (“Burke”) to operate and maintain car rental agencies and for support functions. The awards to car
rental companies at Burke shall be
by resolution of the Board of Control.
Section 4. That the Director is
authorized to enter into one or more
leases or leases by way of concession (the “Burke Leases”) with various car rental companies (the
“Burke Lessees”) to operate and
maintain car rental agencies at
Burke under terms and conditions to
be determined by the Board of Control. The Burke Leases shall be for
a term of five (5) years, with one
option to renew exercisable by the
Director of Port Control, for an additional five-year period after receiving additional legislative authority,
under terms and conditions to be
determined by the Board of Control.
Section 5. That the Leases and
Leases
By
Way
of
Concession
authorized in this ordinance shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 700-08.
By Council Members Westbrook,
Pierce Scott, Johnson, Cimperman
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to transfer Permanent
Parcel No. 001-30-006, to the control,
possession, and use of the Department of Economic Development for
environmental
remediation
and
development; authorizing the Director of Economic Development to
enter into a lease or lease with
option to purchase a portion of the
property, to Penstan, LLC, dba Cosmos Industrial Services, for a period of five years, with two five-year
options to renew, exercisable by the
Director of Economic Development;
authorizing the Commissioner of
Purchases
and
Supplies
to
sell
approximately 0.62 acres of Cityowned property no longer needed for
public use located within the transferred property to Penstan, LLC, dba
Cosmos Industrial Services, under
the project agreement, for the purpose of development; and authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a project agreement with Penstan, LLC and Algart
Health Care.
Whereas, the Department of Community
Development
desires
to
transfer Permanent Parcel No. 00130-006 (the “Trinity Property”) under
its control to the Department of Economic Development; and
Whereas, Section 183.14 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, requires that such transfer be preceded by an ordinance of
Council approving the transfer; and
Whereas, the property to be transferred will become a component of
the City of Cleveland’s industrial
land reutilization program, as established
by
Ordinance
No.
717-05,
passed July 13, 2005, and, as such,
will be regulated by Chapter 5722 of
the Revised Code and Section 183.021
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, regarding acquisition and disposition of the property;
and
Whereas, once under the control
of the Department of Economic
Development, the Director will enter
into a lease, or lease with option to
purchase, with adjacent owner, Penstan, LLC, dba Cosmos Industrial
Services, Inc. (“Penstan”), of a 0.62acre portion of the Trinity Property,
for a period not to exceed five years,
with two five-year options to renew,
exercisable by the Director of Economic Development, for the purpose
of Penstan using the property as an
access driveway to their existing
facility or for future expansion of
their facility; and
Whereas, the 0.62-acre portion of
the Trinity Property being leased to
Penstan may eventually be sold to
them, at which time Penstan will
sell a portion of their property to
Algart Health Care (“Algart”) which
is located across Detroit Avenue
from Penstan; and
Whereas, by doing these real
estate tractions, Algart will be able
to expand their facility using the
Penstan property and remain in
Cleveland, and Penstan will be able
to improve their facility using a portion of the Trinity Property; and

879

15
Whereas, the Director of Economic Development will enter into a project agreement with Penstan and
Algart to memorialize, among other
things, the transfer of real estate
between the parties; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.14 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of
Community Development is authorized to transfer Permanent Parcel
No. 001-30-006, to the control, possession, and use of the Department of
Economic Development:
P. P. No. 001-30-006

Parcel No 1:
Beginning on the center line of
Detroit Avenue, N. (66 feet wide), at
its point of intersection with the
Northerly prolongation of the Easterly line of land conveyed to The
Schafer-Suhr Coal Company by deed
dated March 24, 1916, and recorded
in Volume 1764, Page 279 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence Easterly along said center
line of Detroit Avenue, N.W. about
365 feet to the Northwesterly corner
of land conveyed to The Citizens
Savings and Trust Company of
Cleveland Ohio, by deed dated October 7, 1920, and recorded in Volume
2432, P. 231 of Cuyahoga County
Records;
Thence Southerly along the Westerly line of land so conveyed to The
Citizens Savings and Trust Company of Cleveland, Ohio, about 58844/100 feet to the most Easterly corner of land conveyed to The New
York, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad
Company by deed dated August 13,
1917, and recorded in Volume 1955,
Page
637
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Thence Northwesterly along the
Northeasterly line of land so conveyed to The New York, Chicago &
St. Louis Railroad Company and
along the Northeasterly line of the
First Parcel of Land conveyed to
The New York Chicago and St.
Louis Railroad Company by deed
dated October 18, 1917, and recorded
in Volume 2053, Page 120 of Cuyahoga County Records, about 27124/100 feet to the most Easterly corner of land conveyed to The Ohio
Body & Blower Company by deed
dated January 27, 1925, and recorded in Volume 3205, Page 593 of
Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence
Westerly
along
the
Southerly line of land so conveyed
to The Ohio Body & Blower Company about 84-28/100 feet to an angle:
thence Northwesterly along said
Southerly line about 12-76/100 feet to
the Easterly line of land so conveyed to The Schafer-Suhr Coal Company;
Thence Northerly along said Easterly line of land so conveyed to The
Schafer-Suhr
Coal
Company
and
along the Northerly prolongation
thereof to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Excepting and excluding therefrom the following parcel of land:
Situated in the City of Cleveland
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
12 and bounded and described as follows: Beginning on the center line

16
of Detroit Avenue N. W, 66 feet in
width, at the Northwesterly corner
of land conveyed to Standard International Corporation by deed dated
June 24, 1968 and recorded in Volume 12, 336, Page 403 of Cuyahoga
County Records;
Thence South 00° 05' 52" East
along the Westerly line of land so
conveyed to Standard International
Corporation 588.46 feet to a stone
monument at the Easterly corner of
land conveyed to The New York,
Chicago & St. Louis Railroad Company by deed dated August 13, 1917,
and recorded in Volume 1995, Page
637 of Cuyahoga County Records.
Thence North 82° 05' 35" West
along the Northerly line of land so
conveyed to The New York, Chicago
& St. Louis Railroad Company, and
along the Northerly line of land conveyed to The New York, Chicago &
St. Louis Railroad Company by deed
dated October 18, 1917 and recorded
in Volume 2053, Page 120 of Cuyahoga County Records, a distance of
83.94 feet to an iron pin; thence
North 00° 15' 50" West 567.16 feet to
a point in the center line of aforementioned Detroit Avenue, N. W,
from which point an iron pin located in the Southerly line of Detroit
Avenue N. W., bears South 00° 15'
50" East, 33.20 feet;
Thence North 83° 26' 00" East
along the center line of Detroit
Avenue N. W, 85.31 feet to the place
of
beginning,
containing
45,688
square feet of land (1.0489 Ac.)
exclusive of 2,814 square feet (0.0646
Ac.) lying within the Southerly onehalf of Detroit Avenue, N. W., be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Parcel No. 2:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being that part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No.
12,
which
is
bounded
and
described as follows: The beginning
point is at a stone monument in the
Southerly line of Detroit Avenue, N.
W., (66 feet wide) at its intersection
with the Westerly line of a parcel
of land conveyed by William S. Curtis to Frederick J. McWade by deed
recorded in Volume 211, Page 156 of
said County Deed Records.
Course 1: Thence Southerly along
the Westerly line of said land conveyed to William J. Mc Wade, 469.52
feet to a stone monument at the
Northeasterly corner of a parcel of
land conveyed by The Schafer-Suher
Coal Company to Frank B. Carpenter by deed recorded in Volume 1792,
Page 348 of Cuyahoga County Deed
Records;
Course 2: Thence Westerly along
the Northerly line of said land conveyed to Frank B. Carpenter, 189.02
feet to a stone monument at the
Northwesterly corner of said land
conveyed to Frank B. Carpenter.
Said stone monument being also in
the Easterly line of a parcel of land
conveyed by William S. Curtis to
Wilbur S, Bailey by deed recorded
in Volume 1266, Page 101 of said
County Deed Records;
Course 3: Thence Northerly along
the Easterly line of said land conveyed to Wilbur S. Bailey and its
Northerly prolongation said Northerly
prolongation
being
also
the
Westerly line of a parcel of land
conveyed by Wilbur S. Bailey to
William Curtis by deed recorded in
Volume 1266, Page 100 of said County Deed records, 378.64 feet at its
intersection with the Southerly line
of Detroit Avenue, NW;

The City Record
Course 4: Thence Easterly along
the Southerly line of Detroit Avenue,
N.W., 176.46 feet to the beginning
point;
Save and excepting therefrom the
following described parcel of land:
Situated in the City of Cleveland
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and being a parcel of Original
Brooklyn Township Lot No. 12, now
in said City, and bounded and
described as follows: Beginning at
the Northwesterly corner of the parcel of land conveyed by The SchaferSuhr Coal Company to Frank B. Carpenter by warranty deed dated April
15, 1916, and recorded in Volume
1792, Page 348 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and running;
Thence Southeasterly 188.93 feet,
more or less, along the Northerly
line of the above-described parcel;
Thence Northerly at an angle of
67° 47' 30" with the preceding
course, 13.55 feet more or less;
Thence Northwesterly and at an
angle of 109° 53' with the preceding
course, 186 feet, more or less;
Thence Southerly at an angle of
70° 3' 30" with the preceding course
5.4 feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Parcel No. 3:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
12 in Township Seven (7) North,
Range Thirteen (13) West, and
being more particularly bounded
and described as follows:
Commencing at the point of intersection of the Southerly line of
Detroit Avenue, (66 feet wide) as
originally established and the Easterly line of West 96th Street, (60
feet wide) as originally established,
said point being marked by an iron
pin;
Thence
Southerly,
along
said
Easterly line of West 96th Street, a
distance of 162.52 feet, more or less,
to the Northwesterly corner of a parcel of land conveyed as premises No.
4 by The Union Trust Company, to
The New York, Chicago & St. Louis
Railroad Company by deed dated
October 1, 1930, recorded in Volume
3984, Pages 246-309, of Cuyahoga
county Deed Records, said point
being the principal point of beginning;
Thence Southeasterly, deflecting
to the left 81° 28' 30" along the
Northerly boundary of said parcel of
land conveyed by The Union Trust
Company, a distance of 227.95 feet
to a point that is 108.56 feet Northerly by right angle measurement, from
the Southwesterly boundary of said
parcel of land Conveyed by The
Union Trust Company;
Thence continuing Southeasterly,
deflecting to the right 13° 25 '27",
along the Northeasterly boundary of
said parcel of land conveyed by The
Union Trust Company, a distance of
162.80 feet, more or less to a point
that is the Northeasterly corner of
said parcel of land conveyed by The
Union Trust Company;
Thence Southerly, deflecting to
the right 67° 44' 40", along the Easterly boundary of said parcel of land
conveyed by The Union Trust Company, a distance 63.53 feet, more or
less, to a point;
Thence Northwesterly, deflecting
to the right 109° 58’ 23", a distance
of 28.92 feet to a point;
Thence continuing Northwesterly,
deflecting to the right 1° 21' 30" a
distance of 374.22 feet, more or less

880

May 7, 2008
to a point in said Easterly line of
West 96th Street;
Thence Northerly, deflecting to
the right 68° 58' 30" along said
Easterly line of West 96th Street, a
distance of 13.67 feet, more or less,
to a principal place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Section 2. That on consummation
of the transfer referenced above, the
directors participating in the transaction shall initial and date a copy
of this ordinance and deliver the
copy to the custody of the Division
of Property Management of the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
lease, or lease with option to purchase, to Penstan, the following
property which is not needed for
public use for the term of the lease:
Parcel “A”
Detroit Avenue N.W., Cleveland
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
12, further known as being part of
those premises conveyed to The City
of Cleveland Land Reutilization Program 04 by deed dated November 12,
2004
and
recorded
in
AFN
200411150263 of Cuyahoga County
Records, said parcel being more particularly bounded and described as
follows:
Commencing for Reference at a
stone monument found at the intersection of the centerline of Detroit
Avenue N. W., 66 feet wide, and the
easterly line of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 12; Thence South
83° 26' 00" West along the centerline of Detroit Avenue N. W., a distance of 723.31 feet to the true place
of beginning of the parcel herein
described;
Course No. 1: thence South 00° 15'
50" East and passing through an
iron pin set on the southeasterly
line of Detroit Avenue N. W. at 33.20
feet, a total distance of 564.77 feet
to a point on the northerly line of
land conveyed to The New York,
Chicago and St. Louis Railroad Company by deed dated October 18, 1917
and recorded in Volume 2053, Page
120 of Cuyahoga County Records,
said point being witnessed by a 5/8inch iron pin found distant South
09° 30' 44" West, 2.62 feet therefrom;
Course No. 2: thence North 80° 31'
54" West along the northerly line of
land so conveyed to The New York,
Chicago and St. Louis Railroad Company, a distance of 69.19 feet to an
iron pin set;
Course No. 3: thence North 00° 15'
50" West, a distance of 229.93 feet
to an iron pin set;
Course No. 4: thence North 89° 40'
48" East, a distance of 35.00 feet to
an iron pin set;
Course No. 5: thence North 00°
15'50" West and passing through an
iron pin set on the southeasterly
line of Detroit Avenue N. W. at
286.24 feet, a total distance of 319.44
feet to a point on the centerline of
Detroit Avenue N. W.;
Course No. 6: thence North 83° 26'
00" East along the centerline of
Detroit Avenue N. W., a distance of
33.40 feet to the true place of beginning, said parcel containing 26,746
square feet (0.6140 acres) of land
more or less, as surveyed in March

May 7, 2008
of 2008 by Joseph F. Charlson, Registered Professional Surveyor No.
8003 for and on behalf of McSteen &
Associates, Inc. under project No. 07296 and being subject to all legal
highways and easements of record.
The basis of bearings for this
legal description is North 83° 26 00"
East as the centerline of Detroit
Avenue N. W., as evidenced by monuments found, and is the same bearing as found in the Quit-Claim Deed
from Vincent J. Menier to Menier &
Associates, Inc. recorded in Volume
92-11935, Page 45 of Cuyahoga County Records. All iron pins set are 5/8inch diameter x 30-inches in length
iron rebar with a plastic identification cap stamped “McSTEEN 7104”.
Said parcel is also known as being
Parcel “A” in the Lot Split for 9203
Detroit Avenue N. W., recorded in
Volume of Maps, Page of Cuyahoga
County Records.
Section 4. That the term of the
lease, or lease with option to purchase, authorized by this ordinance
shall not exceed five years, with
two five-year options to renew, exercisable by the Director of Economic
Development.
Section 5. That, notwithstanding
any codified ordinance to the contrary, the property described above
shall be leased at a price of $1.00
and other valuable considerations
for a period not to exceed five years,
with two five-year options to renew,
exercisable by the Director of Economic Development.
Section 6. That the lease may
authorize Penstan to make improvements to the leased premises subject
to the approval of appropriate City
agencies and officials.
Section 7. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain any terms and conditions as are required to protect the
interests of the City.
Section 8. That the Director of
Economic Development, the Director
of Law, and other appropriate City
officials are authorized to execute
any other documents and certificates, and take any other actions
which may be necessary or appropriate to effect the lease authorized
by this ordinance.
Section 9. That, under the terms of
the project agreement relating to
the eventual sale of the leased property to Penstan which is authorized
in this ordinance, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is found and determined that the following described
property is no longer needed for
public use:
Parcel “A”
Detroit Avenue N.W., Cleveland
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
12, further known as being part of
those premises conveyed to The City
of Cleveland Land Reutilization Program 04 by deed dated November 12,
2004
and
recorded
in
AFN
200411150263 of Cuyahoga County
Records, said parcel being more particularly bounded and described as
follows:
Commencing for Reference at a
stone monument found at the intersection of the centerline of Detroit
Avenue N. W., 66 feet wide, and the
easterly line of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 12; Thence South
83° 26' 00" West along the centerline of Detroit Avenue N. W., a dis-

The City Record
tance of 723.31 feet to the true place
of beginning of the parcel herein
described;
Course No. 1: thence South 00° 15'
50" East and passing through an
iron pin set on the southeasterly
line of Detroit Avenue N. W. at 33.20
feet, a total distance of 564.77 feet
to a point on the northerly line of
land conveyed to The New York,
Chicago and St. Louis Railroad Company by deed dated October 18, 1917
and recorded in Volume 2053, Page
120 of Cuyahoga County Records,
said point being witnessed by a 5/8inch iron pin found distant South
09° 30' 44" West, 2.62 feet therefrom;
Course No. 2: thence North 80° 31'
54" West along the northerly line of
land so conveyed to The New York,
Chicago and St. Louis Railroad Company, a distance of 69.19 feet to an
iron pin set;
Course No. 3: thence North 00° 15'
50" West, a distance of 229.93 feet
to an iron pin set;
Course No. 4: thence North 89° 40'
48" East, a distance of 35.00 feet to
an iron pin set;
Course No. 5: thence North 00° 15’
50" West and passing through an
iron pin set on the southeasterly
line of Detroit Avenue N. W. at
286.24 feet, a total distance of 319.44
feet to a point on the centerline of
Detroit Avenue N. W.;
Course No. 6: thence North 83° 26
00" East along the centerline of
Detroit Avenue N. W., a distance of
33.40 feet to the true place of beginning, said parcel containing 26,746
square feet (0.6140 acres) of land
more or less, as surveyed in March
of 2008 by Joseph F. Charlson, Registered Professional Surveyor No.
8003 for and on behalf of McSteen &
Associates, Inc. under project No. 07296 and being subject to all legal
highways and easements of record.
The basis of bearings for this
legal description is North 83° 26' 00"
East as the centerline of Detroit
Avenue N. W., as evidenced by monuments found, and is the same bearing as found in the Quit-Claim Deed
from Vincent J. Menier to Menier &
Associates, Inc. recorded in Volume
92-11935, Page 45 of Cuyahoga County Records. All iron pins set are 5/8inch diameter x 30-inches in length
iron rebar with a plastic identification cap stamped “McSTEEN 7104”.
Said parcel is also known as being
Parcel “A” in the Lot Split for 9203
Detroit Avenue N. W., recorded in
Volume __ of Maps, Page __ of Cuyahoga County Records.
Section 10. That, notwithstanding
any codified ordinance to the conrtrary, and under the terms of the
project agreement relating to the
eventual sale of the leased property
to Penstan which is authorized in
this ordinance, by and at the direction of the Board of Control, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized to sell the abovedescribed property to Penstan at a
price of $1.00 and other valuable
considerations, which is determined
to be fair market value.
Section 11. That the conveyance
shall be made by official deed to be
prepared by the Director of law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland. The deed
shall contain provisions, including
such restrictive covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the Board of Control or
Director of Law, protecting the parties as their respective interests
require and shall specifically contain a provision against the erection
of any advertising signs or bill-

881

17
boards except permitted identification signs.
Section 12. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to any section
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Economic Development is authorized to
enter into a project agreement for
and on behalf of the City of Cleveland with Penstan and Algart relating to the acquisition, disposition,
and private development of the area
under the project agreement.
Section 13. That the Mayor, the
Director of Economic Development,
the Director of Law, and other
appropriate City officials are authorized to execute any certifications
and documents, and take other
actions that may be necessary or
appropriate in connection with carrying out the terms of the project
agreement.
Section 14. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Economic Development, Parks, Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 701-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Euclid Avenue to
Midtown Cleveland, Inc.; and authorizing the Director of Economic
Development to enter into a Development Agreement with Midtown
Cleveland, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, as a condition to the
transfer of the real property identified below to Midtown Cleveland,
Inc., the Director of Economic Development is seeking authorization to
enter into a Development Agreement
with Midtown Cleveland, Inc., to
ensure the repayment of an outstanding Empowerment Zone loan;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Midtown Cleveland, Inc.

18
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-04-016
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
337 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Northerly line of Euclid Avenue,
(80 feet wide), with the Westerly
line of East 61st Street (44 feet
wide); thence Northerly along the
Westerly line of East 61st Street, 200
feet to a point; thence Westerly at
right angles to the Westerly line of
East 61st Street, 109 91/100 feet to
the Westerly line of land conveyed
to Case School of Applied Science by
deed dated December 15, 1909 and
recorded in Volume 1265, Page 204
of Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Southerly along the Westerly line of
land so conveyed to Case
School of Applied Science, 202
90/100 feet to the Northerly line of
Euclid
Avenue;
thence
Easterly
along the Northerly line of Euclid
Avenue, 95 13/100 feet to an angle
therein; thence Easterly continuing
along said Northerly line, 14 88/100
feet to the place of beginning
P. P. No. 118-04-017
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
337 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Euclid Avenue, 80 feet wide, at the
Southeasterly corner of Sublot No. 1
in Southern and Adams Subdivision
, as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Records; thence Easterly along the Northerly line of
Euclid Avenue, 98.96 feet to the
Southeasterly corner of land conveyed to the Cleveland Trust Company by deeded dated March 19, 1931
and recorded in Volume 4130, Page
293 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of land so conveyed, 200 feet to
the Northeasterly corner thereof;
thence Westerly along the Northerly line of land so conveyed, 98.96
feet to the Easterly line of said
Sublot No. 1; thence Southerly along
the Easterly line of said Sublot No.
1, 200 feet to the place of beginning.
Exception therefrom that part conveyed to Hans Pape and Margo
Pape by deed dated October 10, 1966
and recorded in Volume 11865, Page
149 of Cuyahoga County Records.
P. P. No. 118-04-018
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 1 in the Southern and
Adams Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 337,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 4 of Cuyahoga County Records, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning in the Northerly line of
Euclid Avenue at the Southeasterly
corner of a parcel of land conveyed
to Eva M. Kelley by deed dated September 4, 1876 and recorded in Volume 262, Page 268 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Westerly
along said Northerly line of Euclid
Avenue, 60.05 feet to the intersection
of said Northerly line of Euclid
Avenue with the Easterly line of
East 59th Street, (formerly Olilve

The City Record
Avenue),
49
feet
wide;
thence
Northerly along said Easterly line
of East 59th Street, 99.50 feet; thence
Easterly along a line parallel with
the Northerly line of said land conveyed to Eva M. Kelley, 60 feet to
the Easterly line of said land conveyed to Eva M. Kelley; thence
Southerly along said Easterly line
of land conveyed to Eva M. Kelley,
97.06 feet to the place of beginning.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized as a condition to the transfer
of said property, to enter into a
Development Agreement with Midtown Cleveland, Inc., to ensure the
repayment
of
an
outstanding
Empowerment Zone loan.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development and Finance.
Ord. No. 702-08.
By Council Members Lewis and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to employ one or
more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants to provide professional services for pre-employment
background
and
criminal
checks for the Department of Personnel and Human Resources for a
one year period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or

882

May 7, 2008
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional
services
necessary
to
administer
pre-employment
background and criminal records checks;
and including but not limited to
automated national wanted felon
checks; automated motor vehicle
license and points checks; automated workers’ compensation checks;
automated social security traces and
automated credit checks for the
Department
of
Personnel
and
Human Resources, for a one year
period.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Personnel
and Human Resources from a list of
qualified consultants available for
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the
Director
of
Personnel
and
Human Resources for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 01040200-632000, Request No. 162029.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative Action and Training,
Finance.
Ord. No. 704-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and
Sweeney
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds for anti-predatory lending and foreclosure prevention assistance; and authorizing the
Director of Consumer Affairs to
enter into one or more contracts
with various entities to provide
assistance to City residents.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That CDBG and Federal Home Grant funds in the amount
of Two Hundred Eighty-Eight Thousand Dollars ($288,000) are appropriated for anti-predatory lending
and foreclosure prevention assistance programs.
Section 2. That the Director of
Consumer Affairs is authorized to
enter into one or more contracts
with various organizations to provide counseling, training, marketing, program evaluation and other
services required for anti-predatory
lending and foreclosure prevention
assistance.

May 7, 2008
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the contracts shall not exceed
$288,000 and shall be paid from
Fund 14 SF 034, Request No. 178633.
Section 4. That prior to expending
funds under this ordinance, the
Directors of Consumer Affairs and
Community Development shall enter
into a memorandum of understanding for this program.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Consumer
Affairs, Community Development,
Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development
and Finance.
Ord. No. 705-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 49th and 55th
Streets to Elabed, LLC.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Elabed, LLC.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-064

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 13, 14, and 33 in William
J. Gordon’s Allotment of part of
Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 71, 72
and 73, as shown by the recorded
plat of said Allotment in Volume 5
of Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga County
Records,
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
East 49th Street (formerly Arlington
Street), at a point 146 58/100 feet
Northerly,
measured
along
said
Easterly line of East 49th Street
form
its
intersection
with
the
Northerly line of Central Avenue
S.E.,
(formerly
Garden
Street);
thence Northerly along said Easterly line of East 49th Street, 42 feet 6
inches to a point; thence Easterly at
right angles to said Easterly line of
East 49th Street, to a. point which
is 140 feet Westerly measured on a
line drawn at right angles to the
Westerly line of East 55th Street
(formerly Willson Avenue); thence
Southerly parallel with said Westerly line of East 55th Street, to a

The City Record
point in the Northerly line of land
conveyed by W.W. Canton and Eva
P. Canton, his wife, to Jane E.
Hunter by deed recorded in Volume
3015, Page 32 of Cuyahoga County
Record,; thence Westerly along the
Northerly line of land so conveyed
to Jane E. Hunter as aforesaid, to
the place of beginning, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Restrictions of record & zoning
ordinances if any.
Section 3. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Elabed, LLC.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

19
a point in said line, 150 feet Westerly from the Westerly line of East
55th Street, (formerly Wilson Road);
thence Southerly parallel with the
Westerly line of East 55th Street, to
a point where a line drawn at a
right angle from the point of beginning would intersection said parallel lines; thence Westerly to the
place of beginning, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 7. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Elabed, LLC.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

P. P. No. 103-24-065

P. P. No. 103-24-068

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 13 and 33 in W. J. Gordon’s Allotment of part of Original
Ten Acre Lot Nos. 71, 72 and 73 as
shown by the recorded plat of said
Allotment in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
57
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and together forming a parcel of land bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 49th Street, (formerly Arlington Street) at a point 189 feet
Northerly from its point of intersection with the Northerly line of Central Avenue, S.E., (formerly Garden
Street); thence Northerly along said
Easterly line of East 49th Street, 42
1/2 feet; thence Easterly on a line
at right angles with said Easterly
line of East 49th Street to a point
140 feet Westerly from the Westerly line of East 55th Street (formerly Wilson Avenue); thence Southerly on a line parallel to the Westerly line of East 55th Street to its
point of intersection with a line
drawn Easterly at right angles with
said Easterly line of East 49th
Street from the place of beginning;
thence Westerly to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 5. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Elabed, LLC.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio: And known as being Sublot
Nos. 11, 12 and 33 in William J. Gordon’s Subdivision of part of Original
Ten Acre Lot Nos. 71, 72, and 73 as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga
County Records; and together forming a parcel of land bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 49th Street (formerly Arlington
Street)
at
a
point
231.50
feet
Southerly from the dividing line
between Sublot Nos. 32 and 33 in
said Gordon’s Subdivision; thence
Northerly along said Easterly line
of East 49th Street about 78.50 feet
to a point 150 feet West of the Westerly line of East 55th Street, (formerly
Wilson
Avenue);
thence
Southerly on a line parallel with the
Westerly line of East 55th Street
and 150 feet distant therefrom about
43 feet to its point of intersection
with a line drawn Easterly from the
place of beginning at right angles
to the Westerly line of East 49th
Street, about 73 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more or less
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 9. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Elabed, LLC.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

P. P. No. 103-24-067

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 12 and 33 in William J.
Gordor’s Allotment of part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 71, 72 and 73,
as shown by the recorded plat of
said Allotment in Volume 5, Page 57
of Cuyahoga County Records, said
part of Sublot Nos. 12 and 33 together forming a parcel of land bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
East 49th Street, (formerly Arlington Street), 274 feet Southerly from
the Northwesterly corner of said
Sublot No. 33; thence Northerly along
the Easterly line of East 49th Street,
42 1/2 feet; thence Easterly along a
line drawn at right angles to the
Easterly line of East 49th Street, to

883

P. P. No. 103-24-069

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a part of
Sublot Nos. 11 and 33 in William J.
Gordon’s Subdivision of parts of
Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 71, 72
and 73 in said City according to the
plat of said Subdivision recorded in
Volume 5 of Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga County Records, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Easterly line of Arlington Street, 189 feet
Southerly from the dividing line
between Sublot Nos. 32 and 33 in
said Subdivision; thence Northerly
along said Easterly line of Arlington Street 45 feet; thence Easterly at
right angles to the Easterly line of
Arlington Street to a point 170 West
from the West line of Willson
Avenue; thence South parallel with
the West line of Willson Avenue, to
a point 55 feet South from the South
line of Sublot No. 10; thence East

The City Record

20
parallel to the South line of Sublot
No. 10 and 55 feet distant therefrom
20 feet; thence South parallel with
the West line of Willson Avenue
and 150 feet distant therefrom far
enough so that a line drawn at right
angles to the Easterly line of
Arlington Street from the point of
beginning
will
intersection
the
same; thence West at right angles
to the Easterly line of Arlington
Street to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances.
Section 11. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Elabed, LLC.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:

Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning on the West line of
East 55th Street (formerly Wilson
Avenue) at its intersection with the
line between Sublot Nos. 11 and 12;
thence South along the West line of
East 55th Street 50 feet; thence West
at right angles to East 55th Street,
150 feet; thence North parallel to
East 55th Street, 50 feet; thence East
on the line between Sublot Nos. 11
and 13, 150 feet to the place of
beginning.
Section 15. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Elabed, LLC.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-083

P. P. No. 103-24-070

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Sublots Nos. 33 and 11 in William J.
Gordon’s Subdivision of part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos. 71, 72 and 73
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 5, Page 57 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Easterly line of East 49th Street (formerly Arlington Street) 99 feet one
inch Southerly from the point where
the dividing line between Sublot
Nos. 32 and 33 intersect said Easterly line of East 49th Street (formerly
Arlington
Street);
thence
Southerly about 45 feet along the
Easterly line of East 49th Street
(formerly Arlington Street) to the
Northwesterly corner of land conveyed to Edward and Hanna Stokes
by deed dated September 7, 1916 and
recorded in Volume 1851, Page 299
of Cuyahoga County Records; thence
Easterly at right angles with the
Easterly line of East 49th Street
(formerly Arlington Street) about 65
feet 1 1/2 inches to a point in a line
drawn parallel with the Westerly
line of Willson Avenue (now East
55th Street) and 170 feet West therefrom; thence North and parallel with
the Westerly line of Willson Avenue
to the Southerly line of Sublot No.
10; thence Westerly 30 feet along
the Southerly line of said Sublot No.
10 to the Southwest corner of said
Sublot No. 10; thence Westerly at
right angles with the Easterly line
of East 49th Street (formerly Arlington Street) about 41 feet 2 1/2 inches to the place of beginning, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
if any.
Section 13. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Elabed, LLC.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-082

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio: And known as being part
of Sublot No. 12 in the W.J. Gordon’s
Allotment of a part Original Ten
Acre Lot Nos. 71, 72 and 73, as
shown by the recorded plat of said
allotment in Volume 5 of Maps,
Page
57
of
Cuyahoga
County

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 12 in W.J. Gordon’s Allotment of a part of Original Ten Acre
Lot Nos. 71, 72 and 73 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 57 of Cuyahoga County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning in the Westerly line of
Willson Avenue (now known as
East 55th Street) at a point 50 feet
South from its intersection with the
Northerly line of said Sublot; thence
running Southerly along said Westerly line of Willson Avenue (now
known as East 55th Street) 43 feet;
thence
West
parallel
with
the
Northerly line of said Sublot and at
right angles with Willson Avenue
(now known as East 55th Street)
150 feet; thence Northerly parallel
with Willson Avenue (now known
as East 55th Street) 43 feet; thence
East parallel with the Northerly line
of said Sublot, 150 feet to the place
of beginning, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 17. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Elabed, LLC.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 103-24-085

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 13 of William J Gordon’s
Subdivision of part of Original Ten
Acre Lots Nos. 71, 72 and 73 and is
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the West
line of East 55th Street (formerly
Willson Avenue), 38 feet South from
the intersection of the division line
between Sublot No. 12 and 13 with
the West line of said East 55th
Street, formerly said Avenue; thence
running South along said West line
of said East 55th Street 45 feet;
thence West on a line at right
angles with said East 55th Street
140 feet; thence North on a line
drawn parallel with said East 55th
Street 45 feet; thence East on a line
at right angles with said East 55th
Street 140 feet to the place of beginning, being 45 feet front on the
West line of East 55th Street and
extending back between parallel

884

May 7, 2008
lines 140 feet, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 19. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 20. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 21. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 22. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development and Finance.
Ord. No. 706-08.
By Council Member Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on West 97th Street to
Adrian Halcomb.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Adrian Halcomb.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:

May 7, 2008
P. P. No. 017-24-052

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
45 in H. C. Ford’s Subdivision of a
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot No. 14, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 22 of Maps, Page
14 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 40 feet front on the Easterly
side of West 97th Street, and extending back 124.85 feet on the Northerly line, 125.01 feet on the Southerly
line, and having a rear line of 40
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development and Finance.
Ord. No. 707-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 33rd Street to
Shun Ting Mo and Catherine Yn
Lau.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Shun
Ting Mo and Catherine Yn Lau.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 102-35-021

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
29 in J.H. Webster, Assignee and
Mable Weddell’s Subdivision of part
of Original Ten Acre Lots Nos. 89,
90 and 91 as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 13 of Maps, Page 36
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 30 feet front on the Westerly
side of East 33rd Street (formerly
Everett Street) 130.08, feet deep on
the Northerly line, 130.11 feet deep
on the Southerly line and 30 feet in
the rear, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development and Finance
Ord. No. 708-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 33rd Street to
Tam Ching Chuen.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and

885

21
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Tam
Ching Chuen.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 102-37-055

Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio and known as being Sublot
No. 103 in the J.H. Webster Assignee
and Mable Weddell’s Subdivision of
part of Original Ten Acre Lot Nos.
89, 90 and 91, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 13 of Maps,
Page
36
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 30 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 33rd
Street, (formerly Everett Street) and
extending back between parallel
lines 130 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances,
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development and Finance

22

The City Record

May 7, 2008

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 703-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the Use District of land located on the southeast corner of East 55th Street and Saint
Clair Avenue, shown shaded on the attached map, from General Retail Business to Residence Office District.
(Map Change Number 2264, Sheet No. 4).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Saint Clair Avenue at it intersection with the centerline of East 55th Street;
Thence southerly along said centerline of East 55th Street to its intersection with the westerly prolongation
of the southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to BP Exploration and Oil Inc. by deed dated November 17,
1997 and recorded in Auditor’s File Number V97118490045 and known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel
Number 104-12-002;
Thence easterly and northeasterly along said prolongation and southerly line and continuing along its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of East 58th Street;
Thence northwesterly along said centerline of East 58th Street to its intersection with the centerline of Saint
Clair Avenue;
Thence southwesterly along said centerline of Saint Clair Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of
East 55th Street and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Residence Office District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change
No. 2264, Sheet No. 4 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the
office of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate
person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by
law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

886

May 7, 2008
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCE READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 679-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more agreements with
Doan/Pyramid, LLC to extend communications infrastructure from the
Euclid Corridor Project into 205 W.
St. Clair and 4150 East 49th Street,
for the Division of Information
Technology and Services, Department of Finance.
Whereas,
Doan/Pyramid,
LLC
(“Doan”) is currently contracting
with the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority (“RTA”) to
extend communications infrastructure along the Euclid Corridor; and
Whereas, the City desires to have
the similar work done to allow monitoring equipment installed for the
Traffic Signal Section for the Euclid
Corridor traffic signal system; and
Whereas, it will also allow the
City of Cleveland the availability to
share a fiber infrastructure with
RTA and the County for future cooperative endeavors; and
Whereas, if the City can enter into
an agreement with Doan to do the
City portion while doing the RTA
portion, it will result in a substantial cost savings to the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more agreements with Doan
to allow them to extend communications
infrastructure
from
the
Euclid Corridor Project into 205 W.
St. Clair Avenue and 4150 E. 49th
Street. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be paid from Fund
No. 11 SF 006, Request No. 181545.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 18.
Nays 0.
Those voting yea: Council Members Sweeney, Brady, Brancatelli,
Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson, Keane,
Kelley, Mitchell, Polensek, Santiago,
Turner, Westbrook, White, Zone.
Absent: Council Members Lewis
and Reed.
Council
Member
Pierce
Scott
recused herself of the vote of Ordinance No. 679-08.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 709-08.
By Mayor Jackson and Council
Members Sweeney, Zone, Polensek,
Cummins, Brady, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland, Coats, Conwell,
Johnson,
Keane,
Kelley,
Lewis,
Mitchell, Pierce Scott, Reed, Santia-

The City Record
go, Turner, Westbrook and White.
An emergency resolution urging
the General Assembly to amend Sub.
S.B. 171, as passed by the Senate, to
strike language that purports to prohibit municipal regulation of scrap
metal dealers, pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers, and to instead recognize and allow for local regulation that is not in conflict with the
state regulation of these activities;
and to expressly allow a municipality to elect, by ordinance, to require
that
the
records
that
the
bill
requires that these businesses keep
be submitted to the police electronically.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has suffered at the hands of criminals who strip homes of their plumbing, furnaces, electrical wiring and
other metal components, and vehicles of their catalytic converters;
and
Whereas, the problem has become
more severe as the salvage value of
these metals has increased; and
Whereas, the Ohio Senate recently passed Sub. S.B. 171 to comprehensively revise the laws regulating
scrap metal dealers, pawnbrokers,
and secondhand dealers; and
Whereas, the bill, despite many
positive provisions, contains a serious shortcoming because it purports
to prohibit all local regulation of
scrap metal dealers contrary to the
home rule provisions of the Ohio
Constitution; and
Whereas, there is a similar prohibition in existing state law that
declares that the state of Ohio is the
sole regulator of pawnbrokers; and
Whereas,
municipalities
have
local needs that the General Assembly may not be aware of, or have
considered or addressed in the bill;
and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has been working on a local initiative to require that scrap metal dealers provide records of their transactions to the police electronically;
and
Whereas, the police believe that
this could be a critical tool in the
fight against scrap metal thieves;
and
Whereas, Sub. S.B. 171 as passed
by the Senate does not address electronic reporting and would purport
to
prohibit
municipalities
from
implementing such a program; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the General Assembly to amend Sub.
S.B. 171, as passed by the Senate,
and currently under consideration in
the House of Representatives, to
strike language that purports to prohibit municipal regulation of scrap
metal dealers, pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers, and to instead recognize and allow for local regulation that is not in conflict with the
state regulation of these activities;
and to expressly allow a municipality to elect, by ordinance, to require
that
the
records
that
the
bill
requires that these businesses keep
be submitted to the police electronically.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to all members of the
Ohio General Assembly.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the

887

23
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 710-08.
By Council Member Coats.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
stock of a C1 Liquor Permit at 657
East 152nd Street and repealing Resolution No. 10-08, objecting to said
transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of stock of a C1 Liquor
Permit to East 152nd Street, Inc., 657
East 152nd Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44110, Permanent No. 2405365, adopted by the Council on January 7,
2008; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to East 152nd Street,
Inc., 657 East 152nd Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44110, Permanent Number
2405365 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 10-08,
containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 56-08.
By Council Members Sweeney,
Brady and Cimperman (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Marco and Shelia
Periandri to encroach into the public right-of-way of a portion of
Justin Avenue S.W. by installing,
using, and maintaining a fence and
other backyard amenities.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

24

The City Record

Ord. No. 270-08.
By Council Members Zone, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
and installing the Crown Improvement Project; and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more public improvement
contracts for the making of the
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Utilities, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

leyview Homes project; and authorizing the Director of Public Service
to enter into one or more public
improvement contracts for the making of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City
Planning,
Finance;
when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 3, line 4, strike
“175518” and insert “178622”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 275-08.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
execute a deed of easement granting to Steelyard Commons LLC certain easement rights in property
located at the intersection of Steelyard Drive and Quigley Road and
declaring that the easement rights
granted are not needed for public
use.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 350-08.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
Cleveland,
Brady,
Cimperman,
Mitchell and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 6 of Ordinance No. 911-07,
passed June 11, 2007, relating to the
public improvement of rehabilitating Woodland Avenue and Kinsman
Road (State Route 8) between East
34th and East 93rd Streets; and to
supplement the ordinance by adding
new Section 5a to authorize other
agreements.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 296-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance designating Woodland Cemetery as a
Cleveland Landmark.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 348-08.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to the Coral Company to encroach into the public rightof-way at Shaker Square by installing, using, and maintaining wayfinding signage.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 349-08.
By Council Members Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
infrastructure improvements needed
to implement Phase II of Tremont
Pointe, formerly known as the Val-

Ord. No. 358-08.
By
Council
Members
Johnson,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement for installing
new, and removing existing, communication lines at Highland Park
Cemetery and installing a gas line
from the Highland Park Cemetery
Administration Building to a natural gas supply; and authorizing the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties to enter into one or more
public improvement contracts for
the making of the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Committees on Public Parks, Property and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 3, strike line 2 in its
entirety and insert “Fund No. 11 SF
006, Request No. 178808.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 359-08.
By
Council
Members
Brady,
Pierce Scott, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase properties
for future redevelopment at 3503

888

May 7, 2008
West 123rd Street, 3445 West 123rd
Street and 3747 West 130th Street for
the
Department
of
Community
Development; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to convey the properties to
Westown Community Development
Corporation, or its designee, which
are not needed for public use.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 444-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of wildlife
bird exclusion systems, including
installation and maintenance, for
the various divisions of the Department of Port Control, for a period of
two years, with two one-year options
to renew, the first of which is exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 445-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts
without competitive bidding with
Physio-Control, Inc. for maintenance
and repair of automated external
defibrillators located at Cleveland
Hopkins International and Burke
Lakefront Airports, for the Department of Port Control, for a period
not to exceed two years, with two
one-year options to renew.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 456-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Building and
Housing to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies to
implement the Demolition Program,
which includes the Board-up Program; and authorizing the purchase
by one or more requirement contracts for the items of labor and
materials necessary to implement
the Board-up Program.
Approved by Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

May 7, 2008
Ord. No. 502-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into one or more contracts
with Era Systems Corporation for
professional services necessary to
maintain and support the noise monitoring software at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, including
providing and installing upgrades,
for a period of two years, with two
one-year options to renew, the first
of which is exercisable through
additional legislative authority.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 587-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing payment of membership dues of
the City of Cleveland in various professional organizations.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 593-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Johnson and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development
Block Grant funds for expenses for
the Project Clean Program; and
authorizing the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties to enter
into one or more contracts with various agencies to implement the Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Parks, Recreation
and
Properties,
Finance,
Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage Recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 594-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development
Block Grant funds for expenses for
the Demolition Program and emergency contracts under the Board-up
Program; authorizing the Director of
Building and Housing to enter into
one or more contracts with various
agencies to implement these programs; and authorizing the purchase
by one or more requirement contracts for the items of labor and
materials necessary to implement
the Board-up Program.
Approved by Directors of Community
Development,
Building
and
Housing, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Community and Economic Development; Passage Recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

The City Record
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 595-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development
Block Grant funds for expenses for
the Fair Housing Program; and
authorizing the Director of Community Relations to enter into one or
more contracts with various agencies to implement this program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Community Relations, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Community and Economic Development; Passage Recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 596-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating CDBG and Federal HOME
Program funds for the administration of the Housing Rehabilitation
Programs;
and
authorizing
the
Director of Community Development
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide property inspections in compliance with Section
8 Housing Quality Standards.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage Recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 597-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development
Block Grant and NEF Administrative
Cost funds for administrative expenses of the Department of Community Development; authorizing the
Director to enter into one or more
contracts with various agencies and
entities for activities relating to promoting housing events; and authorizing the Director to enter into one
or more contracts with Executive
Information Systems, LLC for SAS
software
maintenance
and
with
Hewlett Packard Company, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage Recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 598-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into or amend
contracts for neighborhood development activities with various social
service agencies, community devel-

889

25
opment or local development corporations and private for profit entities; to enter into or amend memorandums of understanding with various City of Cleveland departments
to implement the City’s community
development programs; and to expend funds for the operation of programs administered by the Department of Community Development.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage Recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 599-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant funds for expenses of the
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) and the CHORE Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Aging, Finance,
Law; Relieved of Committee on Community and Economic Development;
Passage Recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 600-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating Community Development Block
Grant funds for administrative expenses of the Code Enforcement Program.
Approved by Directors of Community
Development,
Building
and
Housing, Finance, Law; Relieved of
Committee on Community and Economic Development; Passage Recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 650-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Pierce Scott and Sweeney (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development and the City Clerk to execute and sign, on behalf of the City
of Cleveland, the Petition for the
creation of The Flats East New
Community Development Authority;
to determine that the petition for
the creation of The Flats East New
Community Development Authority
complies with the requirements of
Section 349.03(A) of the Revised
Code.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Relieved
of Committee on Community and
Economic
Development;
Passage
Recommended
by
Committee
on
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, line 3, strike “April
29, 2008” and insert “May 6, 2008”.
2. In Section 1, lines 1 and 2,
strike “File No. 650-08-A” and insert
“File No. 650-08-B”; and in line 3,
strike “April 30, 2008” and insert
“May 7, 2008”.

The City Record

26

SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED

Perkins Avenue from Multi-Family
Residential to Residence Industry
District (Map Change No. 2216 Sheet
No. 5).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 298-07.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An ordinance to change the zoning of property located on the west
side of East 33rd Street north of

Ord. No. 361-08.
By Council Members Mitchell and
Conwell.
An ordinance to change the Use,
Area and Height Districts of lands

Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

May 7, 2008
located on the southwest corner of
Euclid Avenue and East 117th Street
and lands located on the northeast
corner of Mayfield Rd. and East
117th Street as shown shaded on the
attached map to a General Retail
Business District, a ‘K’ Area District
and a ‘4’ Height District (Map
Change No. 2256; Sheet No.8 & 9).
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.

Ord. No. 362-08.
By Council Member Mitchell.
An ordinance to change the Use District of lands located on the south side of Cedar Avenue between East 100th
Street and East 101st Street to Institutional Research (Map Change No. 2255; Sheet No. 5 & 9).
Approved by Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Passage Recommended by Committee on City Planning; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at the legal description, fifth paragraph, line 2, strike “Sublot Number 74” and insert “Sublot
Number 73”; and in line 3, strike “121-18-151” and insert “121-18-150”.
2. In Section 1, at the last line, after “attached” insert “revised”.
3. Strike the attached map and insert the following new map:
Amendments agreed to.

The rules were suspended. Yeas 19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 19. Nays
0.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council before final passage.

890

The City Record

May 7, 2008
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION ADOPTED
Res. No. 167-08.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
East 71st Street (90 feet wide).
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Adoption recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
19. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 19.
Nays 0.
MOTION
By Council Member Kelley, seconded by Council Member Mitchell
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Members Fannie
M. Lewis and Zachary Reed, be and
is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
7:50 p.m. to meet on Monday, May 12,
2008 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council
Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measure will be on
its final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
April 30, 2008
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, April 30, 2008,
at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi
presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Others: Jim Hardy, Commissioner,
Purchases and Supplies.
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 197-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor
by
Utilicon
Corp.
under Contract No. 66541 for the
Highland-Trebisky
Water
Main
Rehabilitation Project, for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, is approved:

27

Work
Percentage

Subcontractor
McTech Corp./dba
Tech Ready Mix
(MBE)

$3,560.00
0.20%
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 198-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractor
by
Utilicon
Corp.
under Contract No. 66747 for the
cleaning and cement mortar lining
of distribution mains in area 2007-A,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, is approved:
Subcontractor

Work
Percentage

McTech Corp./dba
Tech Ready Mix
(MBE)

$190,824.00
5.38%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 199-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Supreme Corporation for
one (1) cab/chassis with dry goods
van body, body conversion and technical equipment with options (all
items) for TV-23, Department of
Public Utilities, received an March
26, 2008, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 1237-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland September 24, 2007, which on the basis
of the order quantity would amount
to $483,254.73 (Net-30), is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter
into a contract for such items.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractor by Supreme Corporation for the above mentioned
purchase is hereby approved:
Roscor Corporation
$324,193.00 — (67.09%)
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 200-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Whereas, by Board of Control Resolution No. 64-08, adopted January
30, 2008, under the authority of Ordinance No. 952-05, passed June 6, 2005,
as amended by Ordinance No. 178405, passed September 19, 2005, the
City, through the Director of Public
Utilities, selected Utilicon Corporation as the lowest and best bidder
to provide Big Creek Watershed
Stormwater
Management
Project
Phase I (Stream Restoration), items

891

SR-1 through SR-39, plus the 10%
contingency allowance; and
Whereas, by Board of Control Resolution No. 65-08, adopted January
30, 2008, under the authority of Ordinance No. 952-05, passed June 6, 2005,
as amended by Ordinance No. 178405, passed September 19, 2005, the
City, through the Director of Public
Utilities, selected Fabrizi Trucking
& Paving Co. as the lowest and best
bidder to provide Big Creek Watershed Stormwater Management Project Phase I (General, Culvert, &
Alternate 1), items G-1 through G-8,
BC-1 through BC-27, R-1 through R61 and L-1 through L-23, plus the
10% contingency allowance; and
Whereas, the City has determined
that it is in its best interest to
approve all items to Fabrizi Trucking and Paving Co., now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 64-08 and Resolution
No. 65-08, adopted by this Board January 30, 2008, are rescinded.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the bid of Fabrizi
Trucking and Paving Co. for the
public improvement of Big Creek
Watershed Stormwater Management
Improvement Project Phase I (General, Culvert, Stream Restoration &
Alternate 1), items G-1 through G-8,
BC-1 through BC-27, R-1 through R61, SR-1 through SR-39 and L-1
through L-23, plus the 10% contingency allowance, for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, received on
November 9, 2007, under the authority of Ordinance No. 952-05, passed
June 6, 2005, as amended by Ordinance No. 1784-05, passed September
19, 2005, upon a unit basis for the
improvement,
in
the
aggregate
amount of $3,666,802.70, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid, and the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to enter into
contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following
subcontractors by Fabrizi Trucking
and Paving Co. for the abovementioned public improvement is approved:
SUBCONTRACTOR
MBE/FBE

WORK

McTech Corp.
MBE

$515,000.00(14.04%)

Friedel Trucking
FBE

$185,000.00(5.05%)

Rootstown
Excavating, Inc.

$675,205.00(18.41%)

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 201-08.
By Director Smith.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subconsultant by Landrum & Brown,
Inc., under City Contract No. 66752
for professional services necessary
to prepare planning studies for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control, authorized by Ordinance No. 2380-02 as amended by
Ordinance Nos. 468-04 and 1853-06,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on December 16, 2002,

The City Record

28
April 26, 2004 and December 11, 2006,
respectively, is approved.
Subconsultant
Percentage
Amount
G & T Associates,
Inc.

2.44% - DBE
$13,900.00

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 202-08.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that Resolution No. 171-08 adopted
by the Board of Control of the City
of Cleveland on February 29, 2008,
rejecting all bids for Street Grinding (all Items) for the Division of
Streets, Department of Public Service, hereby is rescinded.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 203-08.
By Director Wasik.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Liberty Tire Services of Ohio,
LLC for an estimated quantity of
transfer and disposal of tires, some
on rims, Contract T, item 1, for the
Division of Waste Collection and
Disposal, Department of Public Service, for the period of 1 year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on March 7,
2008, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1603-07 passed October 29,
2007, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to approximately $188,100.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 130794
which shall be certified against such
contract in the sum of $45,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractors by Liberty Tire
Services of Ohio, LLC for the transfer and disposal of tires is approved:
C. Barnes, Inc. — MBE
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.

Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 204-08.
By Director Wasik.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Kurtz Brothers, Inc. for an estimated quantity of disposal of construction and demolition debris, for
the Division of Waste Collection and
Disposal, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1) year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on March
25, 2008, under the authority of Ordinance No. 1604-07, passed October 29,
2007, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
approximately $80,700.00, is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Service is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 130795
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of ($35,000.00).
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 205-08.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Petroleum Traders Corporation for an estimated quantity
of gasoline, items 1 (a, b), 4 (a) and
6 (a) for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period of two
years beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
April 4, 2008, under the authority
of Section 131.18 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$6,808,4,14.00 (0% 30 Days), is affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Public Service is requested to enter
into a requirement contract for the
goods and/or services, which shall
provide for the immediate purchase
as the initial amount of the contract
the following:
Requisition No. 185701
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $350,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Subcontractor
American Merchandising Services
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Act-

892

May 7, 2008
ing Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 206-08.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Great Lakes Petroleum
Co. for an estimated quantity of
gasoline, items 2 (a, b) and 3 (a, b),
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service for the period of two years
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on April
4, 2008, under the authority of Section 131.18 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$3,517,828.00 (Net), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract the following:
Requisition No. 185702
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $500,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity,
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Subcontractor
Consumers Petroleum

Amount
$500,000.00

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 207-08.
By Director Wasik.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of The Shelly Company for the public improvement of grinding city
streets, for the Division of Streets,
Department of Public Service, for
the period of 1 year beginning with
the
execution
of
this
contract,
received on February 29, 2008, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 91007, passed June 11, 2007, which on
the basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $664,000.00, is approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 175935
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $500,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than the estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.

The City Record

May 7, 2008
Be it further resolved by the Board
of Control of the City of Cleveland
that the employment of the following subcontractors by The Shelly
Company is approved.
Interstate Safety
FBE — $35,000.00 — 5.27%
Cook Paving
MBE — $106,000.00 — 15.96%
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 208-08.
By Director Carroll.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Lee Road Development LLC,
d.b.a. R.A. Prince Funeral Services
for cremations and indigent burials
all items, for the Division of Health,
Department of Public Health, for a
period not to exceed one year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract, received on March 5,
2008, under the authority of Ordinance No. 683-07, passed on June 4,
2007, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$102,612.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Health is requested to enter into a requirement contract for cremation and indigent
burials, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 181626
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $20,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for cremations
and indigent burials, whether more
or less than the estimated quantity,
as may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against the contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control that the employment of the following subcontractors by Lee Road Development LLC,
d.b.a. R.A. Prince Funeral Services
is approved:
Subcontractor
Covington International
Hillcrest Crematory &
Cemetery

Percent
Amount
21.9%
$22,425
26.3%
$27,000

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 209-08.
By Director Cox.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on April 23, 2008, for an
estimated quantity of Food, food
products, beverages, condiments and
paper products for Camp Forbes,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, under the authority
of Ordinance of No. 1033-07, Section

181-101, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on November 26,
2007, are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 210-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 128-27-095, located
at East 116th Street under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 360-08
passed April 14, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Amjad Hamdeh has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for new construction – gas station and food service; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
360-08 passed April 14, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Amjad Hamdeh
for the sale and development of
Permanent Parcel No. 128-27-095, as
described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$4,500.00, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair
market value of the parcel for uses
according to the Land Reutilization
Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 211-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 106-07-044, located
at East 81st Street under the Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1823-07
passed April 14, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Kenneth Oliver has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for a garden;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
1823-07 passed April 14, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Kenneth Oliver

893

29
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 106-07-044, as
described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization Program in such manner as best carries
out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcel shall be
$400.00, which amount is determined
to be not less than the fair market
value of the parcel for uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 212-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No(s). 126-03-063 and
126-04-068,
located
at
East
84th
Street under the Land Reutilization
Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 413-08
passed April 14, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation has proposed
to the City to purchase and develop
the parcels for new construction;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
413-08 passed April 14, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No(s). 126-03-063 and 12604-068, as described in the Ordinance
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcels shall be
$100.00
each,
which
amount
is
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of the parcels for
uses according to the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 213-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under the authority of
Ordinance No. 2076-76 passed October
25, 1976, the City is conducting a
Land Reutilization Program according to the provisions of Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No(s). 124-02-020, 12402-021 and 124-02-022, located at East
66th Street under the Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas,
Ordinance
No.
4-08
passed April 14, 2008, authorized the
sale of the parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and

30
Whereas,
First
Bethel
Baptist
Church has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcels for
parking lot; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under the authority of Ordinance No.
4-08 passed April 14, 2008, by the
Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
authorized to execute an official
deed for and on behalf of the City
of Cleveland with First Bethel Baptist Church for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No(s).
124-02-020, 124-02-021 and 124-02-022,
as described in the Ordinance according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for the parcels shall be
$100.00 each, which amount is determined to be not less than the fair
market value of the parcels for uses
according to the Land Reutilization
Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
Resolution No. 214-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according to the provisions of Chapter
5722 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 107-05-133 located at 8125 Simon
Avenue in Ward 8; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Doloris Robinson, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 8 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with Doloris Robinson
for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 107-05-133 located
at 8125 Simon Avenue, according to
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market

The City Record

May 7, 2008

value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting Directors Withers, Dangerfield, Directors Wasik, Carroll, Acting Director H. Smith, Directors Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich,
Guzman and Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 19, 2008
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 08-60: 4491-93 Pearl
Road (Ward 16)
The Hannemann Trust, vendors,
Robert Cutler and Donald Nicholson,
vendees, and Luis Muniz, prospective tenant, appeal to establish use
for piercing and tattooing in an
existing one-story building on a
47.43' x 120' corner parcel, located
in a Local Retail Business District
on the southeast corner of Pearl
Road and Dawning Avenue at 449193 Pearl Road; the proposed use
being subject to the limitations of
Section 343.01(b) and not permitted
but first permitted in a General
Retail Business District, provided it
is located at least 1,000 feet from
residence districts, churches and
schools. As proposed, the use is
within 10 feet of a residential district, within 250 feet of St. Mark’s
Lutheran Church and School and
within 600 feet of Our Lady of Good
Counsel Church and School, contrary
to Section 347.12(b)(1) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 08-71:
Avenue (Ward 2)

894

10012

Meech

John McCurley, owner, appeals to
install 7 foot high solid wooden
fence in the actual front yard of a
40' x 132' parcel located in a General Industry District on the north
side of Meech Avenue at 10012
Meech Avenue; and a fence in the
actual front yard of a General
Industry District shall not exceed a
6 foot height, as stated in Section
358.05a)(1) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar
No.
08-72:
9906
Meech
Avenue((Ward 2)
Waterlox Coatings Corporation,
owner, appeals to install 60 linear
feet of 7 foot high, solid wooden
fence in the actual front yard and
92 linear feet of 7 foot high, solid
wooden fence in the actual interior
side yard of a flag shaped parcel,
located in a General Industry District on the south side of Meech
Avenue at 9906 Meech Avenue; and
a fence in the actual front yard of
a General Industry District shall not
exceed a 6 foot height, as stated in
Section 358.05(a)(1) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 08-74: 2633 East 114th
Street(Ward 6)
Charleen Johnson-Miller, owner,
appeals to erect a 26' x 40' onestory frame, accessory garage on a
40' x 173.58' parcel in a Two-Family District on the east side of East
114th Street at 2633 East 114th
Street; and a floor area of 1,040
square feet is requested, where the
maximum floor area required is 828
square feet, according to the provisions in Section 337.23(7)A of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar
No.
08-75:
7814
Cedar
Avenue (Ward 5)
Mahmoud Jaber, owner, appeals to
erect a 4,000 square foot retail building and accessory 11 space parking
lot on a 100' x 156.83' corner parcel, located in split zoning between
General Retail and Multi-Family
Districts on the southwest corner of
Cedar Avenue and East 79th Street
at 7814 Cedar Avenue; subject to the
limitations of Section 337.08 the
retail use is not permitted in the
Multi-Family District but first permitted in a Local Retail Business
District; and no landscape plan is
provided to comply with the requirements for a 6 foot wide frontage
strip with 50% year-round opacity
where the parking lot abuts the
street nor an 8 foot wide landscaped
transition strip with 75% year-round
opacity at the rear of the parcel
where the lot abuts a residential district, contrary to the provisions of
Sections 352.08-11 of the Codified
Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 5, 2008
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, May 5,
2008, the following appeals were
heard by the Board.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 08-65: 1719 East 116th
Street
Case Western Reserve University,
owner, appealed to reconstruct and

The City Record

May 7, 2008
reconfigure a parking lot to an
existing multi-family building in a
Multi-Family District; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 08-66: 11635 Euclid
Avenue
University Hospitals, owner, and
the Cleveland Hearing and Speech
Center,
prospective
purchaser,
appealed to erect a four-story Hearing and speech Center for office and
treatment purposes and an accessory parking lot in split zoning
between General Retail and MultiFamily Districts; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 07-117: 17149 St. Clair
Avenue
All
City
Recycling,
owner,
appealed to establish use as a junk
yard in split zoning between SemiIndustry and General Industry Districts; subject to conditions.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 08-41: 3136-42 West 63rd
Street
Richard R. Kassouf, Inc., owner,
appealed to establish use as a used
car lot, indoor prep/service area and
storage in an existing building on a
triangular shaped acreage parcel in
an Unrestricted Industry District.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 08-28: 1901 West 25th
Street
Metzner Building LLC, owner, and
Natalie Roelle and David Stalter,
tenants, appealed to establish use
for tattooing in the first floor space
of a three-story building in a General Retail Business District.
The following appeals were Dismissed:
None.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 08-64: 1170 Ivanhoe
Road postponed to June 9, 2008
Calendar No. 08-42: 801 Literary
Road postponed to June 16, 2008
Calendar No. 07-261: 12222 Soika
Avenue postponed to June 9, 2008.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on April 28, 2008 were
adopted and approved on May 5,
2008.
The
following
Approved:

appeals

were

Calendar No. 07-239: 10606 Bellaire
Road
Ennan
and
Essam
Abdallah
appealed to construct a grocery
store at an existing service station
in a Local Retail Business District;
subject to conditions.
Calendar No. 08-55: 5000 Pearl Road
Myron Kaplan appealed to erect a
wind turbine on a flag shaped corner acreage parcel in split zoning
between B1 Semi-Industry and B3
General Industry Districts; subject
to condition.
Calendar No. 08-61: 748
Avenue
Carly Cahlik appealed
struct a second floor room
to a one family dwelling
Two-Family District.

Brayton
to conaddition
in a B1

31

Calendar No. 08-29: 11901 Mayfield
Road
Constance
Perotti,
owner,
and
Mayfield Lofts LLC appealed to
erect a 6-story 24,410 square foot, 60
feet
high
condominium
building
with parking on the ground floor in
a Semi-Industry District.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 08-63: 4624 East 162nd
Street
Rashawn Ford appealed to establish a Type A day care use in a one
family dwelling in an A1 One-Family District.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
April 30, 2008
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
* * *
Docket A-26-08.
RE: Appeal of Mary E. Wilson,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single
Family
Residence
One
&
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
5903 Linwood Avenue from a 24
HOUR VACATE ORDER of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated February 6,
2008, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-26-08 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for May
14, 2008.
* * *
Docket A-36-08.
RE: Appeal of Pledged Property
II, LLC C/O Litton Loan Servicing,
Mortgagee of the Two Dwelling
Units Two-family Residence Two &
One/half Story Frame Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 3301 East 130th Street
from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION
ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated February 1, 2008, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
The Board will take no action on
this docket at this time, noting that
there is a new owner for the property.
* * *
Docket A-37-08.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland Revitalization Group, LLC, Owner of the
Two Dwelling Units Two-family
Residence Two & One/half Story
Masonry Residential Property located on the premises known as 1918
West 57th Street from an 30 DAY
CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MS
&
GARAGE, dated February 19, 2008 of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).

895

BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
violations were properly issued and
that the Appellant is granted thirty
(30) days in which to obtain permits
and demolish the property; the property is REMANDED at this time to
the Department of Building and
Housing for supervision and any
required further action Motion so in
order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders
and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab.
Nays: None.
Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
* * *
Docket A-38-08.
RE: Appeal of Werner Properties,
Inc., Owner of the F-1 Factory—
Moderate
Hazard
(Combustibles)
One Story Masonry Property located
on the premises known as 3135
Berea Road from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION—NO PERMIT, and from a
30 DAY FIRE DAMAGE REPAIR—
MS, dated February 6, 2008 of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances
of the City of Cleveland and the
Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to submit plans and obtain all
required permits, and ninety (90)
days in which to abate all violations
on the property; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab.
Nays: None.
Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
* * *
Docket A-39-08.
RE: Appeal of Kevin C. York,
Owner of the Two Dwelling Units
Two-family
Residence
Two
&
One/half Story Frame Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 1968 West 47th Street
from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION
ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated February 27, 2008, requiring compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and ninety (90)
days in which to abate the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action.
Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab.
Nays: None.
Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
* * *
Docket A-40-08.
RE: Appeal of Kevin C. York,
Owner of the One Dwelling Unit Single
Family
Residence
One
&
One/half Story Frame Residential
Property located on the premises
known as 1966 West 47th Street
from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION
ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated February 27, 2008, requir-

The City Record

32
ing compliance with the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and ninety (90)
days in which to abate the violations; the property is REMANDED
at this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action.
Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab.
Nays: None.
Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
* * *
Docket A-41-08.
RE: Appeal of CWF-Countrywide
Home Loan, Mortgagee of the Two
Dwelling Units Two-family Residence Two & One/half Story Wood
Frame/Siding/Masonry Veneer Residential Property located on the
premises known as 1850 Reyburn
Road from a 7 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER—MS of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, dated October 12, 2007,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to require that the
property be vacated immediately
and the grounds be cleaned up within fourteen (14) days; and to grant
the Appellant thirty (30) days in
which to obtain permits and ninety
(90) days in which to abate all violations on the property; the property is REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab.
Nays: None.
Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
* * *
Docket A-45-08.
RE: Appeal of Deutsche Bank/Citi
Residential Lending, Mortgagee of
the Two Dwelling Units Two-family
Residence Two & One/half Story
Frame Residential Property located
on the premises known as 4000 East
89th Street from a 30 DAY FIRE
CONDEMNATION
ORDER—MS
of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated February 7, 2008, requiring compliance
with the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland and the Ohio
Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the
Appellant thirty (30) days in which
to obtain permits and ninety (90)
days in which to abate all violations
on the property; the property is
REMANDED at this time to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded
by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab.
Nays: None.
Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
* * *
Docket A-46-08.
RE: Appeal of UMTH Lending
Company, L.P., Mortgagee of the
One Dwelling Unit Single Family
Residence One & One/half Story

Frame Property located on the
premises known as 12417 Benwood
Avenue from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, dated January 31, 2008,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
Docket A-46-08 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
* * *
Docket A-53-08.
RE: Appeal of Scott Staley, Owner
of the Property located on the
premises known as 13600 Deise
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated March 18, 2008, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
Docket A-53-08 has been WITHDRAWN at the request of the Appellant.
* * *
Docket A-55-08.
RE: Appeal of Cleveland Clinic
Foundation, Owner of the Property
located on the premises known as
2054 Clinic Drive from an ADJUDICATION ORDER, of the Director of
the Department of Building and
Housing, dated March 27, 2008,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the construction to
proceed without construction of a
two hour separation barrier between
the
non-sprinkled
and
sprinkled
areas, noting that the non-sprinkled
areas is undergoing a fire alarm
upgrade, and that there are smoke
detectors in the area and that construction of a sprinkler system will
begin immediately upon occupancy
of the other areas; and to permit the
exit discharge to go through a nonexterior area, noting that compliance will be achieved when all
areas are sprinkled in the 2009/2010
project.
Motion
so
in
order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Saab.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Gallagher, Saab.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Bradley.
* * *
Docket A-60-08.
RE: Appeal of Flats Development,
Owner of the Tent Property located
on the premises known as 1151 Main
Avenue from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated April 29, 2008, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the tent to be constructed and occupied as proposed,
noting that smoke detectors will be
presented, that a fire watch will be
maintained and that any other
requirements of the City as outlined
in the letter will be complied with.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Saab and seconded by Mr. Gallagher.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Sullivan.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mr. Bradley.

896

May 7, 2008
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS
FROM APRIL 2, 2008:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Saunders for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-18-08—Franklin Blvd. Ltd
A-29-08—Michael J. Rabkewych
A-31-08—Citifinancial
Mortgage
Co., Inc.
A-44-08—Herbert Jones
Yeas: Messrs. Saunders, Gallagher,
Saab.
Nays: None.
Not Voting: Mr.
Denk.
Absent: Mr. Bradley.
* * *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM
APRIL 2, 2008:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Saunders for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
April 2, 2008

Yeas: Messrs. Saunders, Gallagher,
Saab.
Nays: None.
Not Voting: Mr.
Denk.
Absent: Mr. Bradley.
* * *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS
FROM APRIL 16, 2008:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Saunders for Approval and Adoption of
the Resolutions as presented by the
Secretary for the following Dockets
respectively, subject to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland
and the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
A-16-08—Playhouse Square Foundation
A-22-08—Victoria Roberts
A-33-08—Wells Fargo Bank
A-34-08—Monument Street Funding
II LLC
A-35-08—Northern Ohio Scrap Service Corp.
A-42-08—City of Cleveland
A-43-08—Wells Fargo Bank
A-54-08—Susan A. Dean/Diane A.
Millett
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab.
Nays: None.
Not Voting: Mr.
Gallagher.
Absent: Mr. Bradley.
* * *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM
APRIL 16, 2008:
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Saunders for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
April 16, 2008

Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders,
Saab.
Nays: None.
Not Voting: Mr.
Gallagher.
Absent: Mr. Bradley.
* * *
Secretary

The City Record

May 7, 2008
PUBLIC NOTICE

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
on Proposed Amendment to the
FLATS EAST BANK
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Notice is hereby given in accordance with Chapter 319 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland that the Cleveland City
Planning Commission will hold a
Public Hearing on Friday May 16,
2008 at 9:00 a.m. in Room 514 City
Hall, 601 Lakeside Avenue, NE,
Cleveland, Ohio, for the purpose of
considering the approval of a proposed amendment to the Flats East
Bank Community Development Plan
(“the Plan”). The Plan amendment
proposes certain land acquisition
and clearance activities for the
eventual redevelopment of an Action
Area
whose
boundaries
coincide
with those of the Plan Area. Further, the Plan proposes general
treatment measures to eliminate
conditions of blight and deterioration found to exist in the Plan Area
and prevent the recurrence of blight.
FLATS EAST BANK COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT PLAN –
PROPOSED AMENDED PLAN
AREA BOUNDARY
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and the State
of Ohio and beginning at the intersection of the Northerly right-of-way
of Main Avenue, NW (40 feet wide)
and the Westerly right-of-way of
West 9th Street (99 feet wide);
thence Northwesterly along said
Westerly right-of-way of West 9th
Street to its intersection with the
Southerly bridge abutment of the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority’s
(GCRTA)
Waterfront
Rail Line;

ly line of Old River Road to its
intersection with the Northerly line
of Sublot No. 9 in the H. Curtis et
al Subdivision recorded in Volume
“4” Page 30 of Cuyahoga County
Map Records;
Thence
Easterly
along
said
Northerly line of Sublot No. 9 and its
Easterly prolongation to its intersection with the Westerly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to the City
of Cleveland by deed recorded in
Volume 90-2362, Pages 4 through 17
of Cuyahoga County Map Records;
Thence Northwesterly along said
Westerly line of parcel conveyed to
the City of Cleveland and its Northwesterly prolongation to its intersection with said Northerly right-ofway of Main Avenue, NW (40 feet
wide).
Thence Northeasterly along said
Northerly
right-of-way
of
Main
Avenue, NW (40 feet wide) to its
intersection
with
said
Westerly
right-of-way of West 9th Street (99
feet wide) and the principal place
of beginning.
The purpose of the hearing is to
enable the City Planning Commission to publicly present the aforementioned elements of the proposed
Plan amendment and solicit reaction
to the proposed Plan amendment
from any interested party.
Documents that constitute the Plan are
on file for public inspection during
business hours (8:00 a.m. to 5:00
p.m., Monday through Friday) at the
Cleveland City Planning Commission offices, Room 501 City Hall, 601
Lakeside Avenue, NE, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Any person or organization desiring to be heard at said public hearing will be afforded an opportunity
to be heard.
Robert N. Brown
Director
City Planning Commission
_____
April 30, 2008 and May 7, 2008

Thence, Southwesterly along said
Southerly GCRTA bridge abutment
to its intersection with the Northeasterly property line of Parcel “B”
of a Lot Split and Consolidation for
the Consolidated Rail Corporation
recorded in Volume 281 Pages 23
and 24 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence Northwesterly along said
Northeasterly property line of Parcel “B” and its Northwesterly prolongation to a point about 193 feet
Northwesterly of the Northwesterly
property line of said Parcel “B”;
thence Southwesterly and parallel
with said Northwesterly line of Parcel “B” to the Northwesterly prolongation of the Southwesterly line of
said Parcel “B”; thence Southeasterly along the Nortwesterly prolongation and the Southwesterly line of
said Parcel “B” to the Southwesterly corner thereof; thence Southwesterly along the Southwesterly prolongation of the Southerly line of
said Parcel “B” to its intersection
with the Easterly dock line of the
Cuyahoga River; thence Southerly
along said Easterly dock line to its
intersection with the Southerly line
of the Main Avenue Bridge; thence
Northeasterly along said Southerly
line to its intersection with the
Easterly line of Old River Road;
thence Southerly along said Easter-

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
_____________
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Cleveland City Council
Committee on
Community and Economic
Development
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room
Cleveland City Hall,
601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 217
Tuesday, June 3, 2008
9:30 a.m.
Notice is hereby given in accordance with Chapter 324 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, OH
that the Council Committee on Community and Economic Development
will hold a Public Hearing on Tuesday, June 3, 2008 at 9:30 a.m. in the
Mercedes Cotner Committee Room,
Cleveland City Hall, 601 Lakeside
Avenue, Room 217 Cleveland, Ohio
to consider Ordinance No. 504-08,
relating to the existence of blight at
the following property and the
necessity of acquiring said property
to eliminate the blight and prevent
its recurrence:

897

33
11850 LORAIN AVENUE.
All interested persons are encouraged to attend or be represented at
the Public Hearing in order to be
heard and to present their views.
Sabra Pierce Scott,
Chairwoman
Community and Economic
Development Committee
_____
May 7-14-21-28, 2008

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Office of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, MAY 21, 2008
File No. 106-08 — Residential Sound
Insulation Program Phase II Continuation Contract A-06-2A (Re-Bid),
for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, as authorized by Ordinance No. 930-95,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 19, 1995, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 46998, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, May 18, 1998, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 3272000, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 22, 2000,
respectively.

The City Record

34
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF A ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS
($100.00) IN THE FORM OF A
CASHIER’S
CHECK
AND/OR
MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY
CHECKS, NO CASH AND NO
CREDIT
CARDS
WILL
BE
ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING
TUESDAY, MAY 13, 2008 AT 10:00
A.M., THE OFFICES OF C & S
COMPANIES,
ONE
INTERNATIONAL PLACE, 20445 EMERALD PARKWAY, SUITE #100,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
File No. 104-08 — Heating and Air
Conditioning Replacement, for the
Office of Radio Communications,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 34208, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, April 7, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 8, 2008 AT
10:00 A.M., THE WATER DEPARTMENT, ORC RADIO SHOP,
4600 HARVARD AVENUE, CUYAHOGA HEIGHTS, OHIO 44105.
April 30, 2008 and May 7, 2008
THURSDAY, MAY 22, 2008
File No. 102-08 — 9MM Pistols Model
17 and Model 19, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public
Safety, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 646-92, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, June 1,
1992.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY, MAY 9, 2008 AT 10:00
A.M., THE OUTDOOR POLICE
RANGE,
3700
WEST
58TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44102.
File No. 103-08 — Rifles, for the
Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 646-92, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 1, 1992.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY, MAY 9, 2008 AT 10:00
A.M., THE OUTDOOR POLICE
RANGE,
3700
WEST
58TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44102.
April 30, 2008 and May 7, 2008
WEDNESDAY, MAY 28, 2008
File No. 101-08 — Purchase of Remanufactured Transmissions and Repair, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 686-07, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING MONDAY, MAY 12, 2008 AT 11:00 A.M.,
THE DIVISION OF MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, BUILDING
#1, 4150 EAST 49TH STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
April 30, 2008 and May 7, 2008

THURSDAY, MAY 29, 2008
File No. 105-08 — 2008 Office Supplies, for the Various Divisions of
City Government, Department of
Finance, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1723-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
October 29, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY, MAY 13, 2008 AT 11:30 A.M.,
CITY HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASES & SUPPLIES, ROOM 128,
601 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
April 30, 2008 and May 7, 2008
FRIDAY, MAY 30, 2008
File No. 100-08 — Labor and Materials to Maintain/Repair/Refurbish
Various Material Handling Equipment: Industrial Trucks, Sweepers
and Scrubbers, Aerial Lifts, Tractors, for the Division of Water,
Department of Public Utilities,
authorized by Ordinance No. 169007, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, November 12,
2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING
FRIDAY, MAY 9, 2008 AT 2:30
P.M., THE CLEVELAND DIVISION OF WATER, PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING, 1201 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 21, 2008
File No. 111-08 — Highland Park
Cemetery Utility Duct Improvements,
for
the
Division
of
Research, Planning And Development, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 358-08,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, TBD.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF A FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00)
IN THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 15, 2008 AT
10:00 A.M., LOCATED AT THE
SECOND
FLOOR
BANQUET
ROOM,
AT
THE
HIGHLAND
PARK
GOLF
COURSE,
3550
GREEN ROAD, VILLAGE OF
HIGHLAND HILLS, OHIO 44122.
May 7, 2008 and May 14, 2008
THURSDAY, MAY 22, 2008
File No. 112-08 — Food, Food Products, Beverages, Condiments and
Paper Products at Camp Forbes
(Re-Bid),
for
the
Division
of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Section 181.18 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY, MAY 15, 2008 AT
10:00 A.M., CITY HALL, DIVISION

898

May 7, 2008
OF RECREATION, ROOM 8, 601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
May 7, 2008 and May 14, 2008
THURSDAY, MAY 29, 2008
File No. 109-08 — Ammunition, for
the Division of Police, Department
of Public Safety, as authorized by
Section 135.065 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, MAY 20, 2008 AT 10:00
A.M., THE OUTDOOR POLICE
RANGE,
3700
WEST
58TH
STREET,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44102.
File No. 110-08 — Seville Station
Garage Door Repairs 2008, for the
Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 535-07
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 4, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT
OF A FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00)
IN THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER. (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING
THURSDAY, MAY 15, 2008 AT
2:00 P.M., LOCATED AT THE
SEVILLE SERVICE STATION,
16007 SEVILLE ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO, 44128-3001.
May 7, 2008 and May 14, 2008
FRIDAY, MAY 30, 2008
File No. 107-08 — Electric Motors
and Pumps, for the Division of
Engineering
and
Construction,
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 172807 passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 10,
2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
FRIDAY, MAY 16, 2008 AT 2:00
P.M., LOCATED AT THE PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, 4150 EAST
49TH STREET, BUILDING #2,
UPSTAIRS CONFERENCE ROOM,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
File No. 108-08 — Transformers for
The Juvenile Justice System, for
the Division of Cleveland Public
Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Section
129.26 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, MAY 21, 2008 AT 10:00 A.M.,
LOCATED AT THE CLEVELAND
PUBLIC POWER, CENTENNIAL
ROOM, 1300 LAKESIDE AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE
WHO
DOES
NOT
ATTEND A MANDATORY PREBID CONFERRENCE.
May 7, 2008 and May 14, 2008

May 7, 2008
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 654-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency resolution fixing the
summer schedule of meetings of the
Council of the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the schedule of
meetings during the summer months
of the Council of the City of Cleveland is hereby fixed as follows:
July 2, 2008
August 6, 2008

A notice identifying the time of
the meeting as well as a schedule
of committee meetings, if any, to be
held prior to the meeting shall be
prepared by the Clerk prior to each
of the above meeting dates. The
Council will resume regular session
at 7:00 p.m. on Monday, September 8,
2008.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Res. No. 657-08.
By Council Members Zone, Cummins,
Polensek,
Westbrook
and
Brady.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio Senate to support and not
modify the “Great Lakes - St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources
Compact”.
Whereas, the Great Lakes comprise almost 20% of the world’s surface fresh water and 95% of North
America’s fresh surface water, and
supply drinking water to more than
40 million U.S. and Canadian residents; and
Whereas,
Lake
Erie
supplies
drinking water to nearly 3 million
Ohioans and supports local agriculture; a diversity of wildlife, including a world class fishery; maritime
trade; industry; and tourism; and
Whereas, Lake Erie is ailing from
a multitude of stressors, including
aquatic invasive species, toxic contamination of river and lake sediments, partially or inadequately
treated sewage discharges, pollution
from non-point sources, and coastal
habitat loss; and
Whereas, Lake Erie is the shallowest, warmest and most biologically productive, producing more
fish for human consumption than all
of the other four Great Lakes combined; and

The City Record
Whereas, Lake Erie is incredibly
vulnerable to stressors as the smallest Great Lake both in surface area
and volume, with a drainage basin
totaling 30,140 square miles, and
encompassing
parts
of
Indiana,
Michigan, New York, Ohio, Ontario,
and Pennsylvania; and
Whereas, the health of Lake Erie
is essential to the quality of life and
economic vitality of communities
along its shores and in the surrounding basin, supporting tourism,
industrial, recreational, commercial,
and cultural activities; and
Whereas, over 140 scientists have
endorsed a paper, “Prescription for
Great Lakes Ecosystem Protection
and Restoration – Avoiding the Tipping Point of Irreversible Changes,”
which calls for urgent action in the
Great Lakes to avoid an ecosystem
breakdown; and
Whereas, there has been an unprecedented collaborative effort on
the part of 1,500 people representing federal, state, tribal and local
governments, research institutions
including universities, businesses,
agricultural organizations, non governmental entities and private citizens to develop an Action Plan to
Restore
and
Protect
the
Great
Lakes; and
Whereas, members of Congress
have introduced the Great Lakes
Collaboration Implementation Act,
which seeks approximately $20 billion over a five year period to fund
projects that implement the Action
Plan to Restore and Protect the
Great Lakes; and
Whereas, specifically, the Act will
provide funding to:
Prevent and control aquatic invasive species;
• Create and restore wetlands
and other fish and wildlife habitat;
• Reduce municipal sewage overflows;
• Clean up toxic sediments in
Great Lakes Areas of Concern, including the Cuyahoga River;
• Reduce mercury pollution;
• Otherwise implement the Action
Plan to Restore and Protect the
Great Lakes; and
Whereas, local governments need
financial
assistance
to
upgrade
wastewater treatment plants and
infrastructure, to reduce non-point
source pollution; and
Whereas, the Florida Everglades
and
other
nationally
significant
water resources have already benefited from significant federal investments in restoration and protection; and
Whereas, the Great Lakes are a
treasured natural resource in need
of substantial state and federal
financial assistance; and
Whereas, protection of the Great
Lakes is a challenge of utmost significance and scope to the people of
the City of Cleveland, the Northeast
Ohio region, the State of Ohio, and
all states and provinces that comprise the Great Lakes’ basin; and
Whereas, this monumental challenge includes working to safeguard
the quality of the waters in order to
protect these freshwater resources
from threats of out-of-basin water
diversions and to continue to enable
our use and enjoyment of this water
resource within the basin; and

899

35
Whereas, Canada and the United
States
created
the
International
Joint Commission through the 1909
Boundary Waters Treaty because
they recognized that the two countries need to cooperate in order to
manage these waters wisely and to
protect them for the benefit of current and future generations; and
Whereas, in June 2002, the Commission appointed the International
Water Uses Review Task Force to
assist it in carrying out a review of
the issue of water uses in the Great
Lakes basin and to prepare a report
on the topic; and
Whereas, the International Water
Uses Review Task Force finalized a
report to the International Joint
Commission, entitled “Protection of
Waters of the Great Lakes” that
encourages support for a more deliberative approach to finalizing the
Great Lakes Compact to establish
protection of waters of the Great
Lakes from diversion; and
Whereas, the Great Lakes Compact is an amendment to the Great
Lakes Charter of 1985, which is a
non-binding agreement signed by
the Governors of the eight states
and the Premiers of the two Canadian provinces that border the Great
Lakes; and
Whereas, the purpose of the Great
Lakes Compact is to forge a new
binding agreement to manage the
Great Lakes waters, develop a decision-making standard for a new or
increased water withdrawals, and
make further commitments to continue to improve the Great Lakes
water management system; and
Whereas, the state of Ohio must
continue its proud tradition of protecting Lake Erie and fulfill its
commitment
to
protecting
and
restoring the Great Lakes by taking
substantial
steps
and,
whenever
practical, match federal funding to
implement the Great Lakes Collaboration Implementation Act; and
Whereas, the state of Ohio should
firmly establish its opposition to the
diversion of Great Lakes water for
the future protection of this important global resource that is vital to
strengthening the American and
Canadian economies and the vitality of the states and provinces along
the Great Lakes shores; and
Whereas, in their April 21, 2008
letter sent to the Ohio Senate Leadership, Senators George V. Voinovich and Sherrod Brown, and U.S.
House of Representatives, Ralph Regula, Marcy Kaptur, David Hobson,
Steven
C.
LaTourette,
Stephanie
Tubbs-Jones, Michael, Turner, Tim
Ryan, Betty Sutton, Zack Space and
Charles A. Wilson all expressed
their support of the Great Lakes St. Lawrence River Basin Water
Resources Compact, and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Ohio Senate to support and not
modify the “Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources
Compact”.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit certified

36
copies of this resolution to Bill Harris, President, Ohio Senate, Tom Niehaus, Chairman, Committee on Environmental & Natural Resources,
Ohio Senate, Ray Miller, Minority
Leader, Ohio Senate and Sue Morano, Committee on Environmental &
Natural Resources, Ohio Senate.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Res. No. 659-08.
By Council Members Cimperman,
Turner, White, Cleveland, Pierce
Scott, Polensek, Brancatelli, Kelly,
Zone, Brady, Sweeney, Keane, Conwell, Santiago, Reed, Westbrook,
Johnson and Coats.
An emergency resolution recognizing the important contributions
of the Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland to the well being
to the City and urging the Board of
Trustees of the Jewish Community
Federation of Cleveland to give
utmost consideration to retaining its
headquarters in the City of Cleveland, in order to continue to engage
in our community's affairs for the
benefit of all Clevelanders and the
region.
Whereas, for over 100 years The
Jewish Community Federation of
Cleveland has been located in the
heart of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the past, present, and
future prosperity of the City of
Cleveland, the region, and the Jewish Community are linked together
as one; and
Whereas, the Jewish Community
has always played an active roll in
the City’s civic, political, and business affairs and the City now, more
than ever, needs the assistance of
the Jewish Community to meet its
current challenges; and
Whereas, the physical presence of
the Jewish Community Federation
headquarters, in downtown Cleveland, symbolizes our historic relationship; and
Whereas, there is no great region
in the United States without a
strong and vibrant central business
district and the Jewish Community
Federation’s commitment to remain
in the City recognizes this importance, not only for the City of Cleveland’s prosperity, but to everyone,
including the Jewish Community’s;
and
Whereas, all major religious organizations, civic organizations, governmental, and the foundation community are located in downtown Cleveland; and
Whereas, The Jewish Community
Federation
of
Cleveland
should
remain in our City to facilitate this
historical cooperation, thereby benefiting Jewish Community Federation as well as its partner organizations; and

The City Record
Whereas, The Jewish Community
Federation is an important part of
the fabric of the City, and its physical presence is evidence of this
commitment; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland hereby recognizes
the important contributions of the
Jewish Community Federation of
Cleveland to the well being to the
City and urges the Board of Trustees
of the Jewish Community Federation
of Cleveland to give utmost consideration to retaining its headquarters
in the City of Cleveland, in order to
continue to engage in our community’s affairs for the benefit of all
Clevelanders and the region.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to forward a
certified copies of this resolution to
Harley Gross, Chairman of the Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland and Stephen Hoffman, President of the Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 408-08.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 135.09 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 559-03,
passed May 12, 2003, relating to the
Division of Police.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 135.09 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 559-03, passed May 12,
2003, is amended to read as follows:
Section 135.09 Division of Police
(a) There is established a Division of Police in the Department of
Public Safety, to be administered
and controlled by a Chief of Police,
subject to the provisions of the
Charter and ordinances of the City
and to the direction of the Director
of Public Safety. The Division shall
comprise the police force of the City
and shall consist of the ranks set
forth in the table in this division
and not more persons per ranks
than are designated in such table.

900

May 7, 2008
Designation of the number of persons in each rank constitutes the
maximum authorized strength for
the rank and does not require, and
shall not be construed as requiring,
the appointment of the number of
officers and patrol officers so designated, or of any specific lesser
number. All members of the Division
shall be appointed by the Director
of Public Safety, unless otherwise
provided in the Charter. The ranks
of Deputy Chief of Police, Commander of Police and Commissioner of
Traffic Control shall include five
(5) minority persons:
Rank
Chief of Police
Deputy Chief of
Police
Commander of
Police
Commissioner of
Traffic Control
Captain
Lieutenant
Sergeant
Patrol Officer

Not to Exceed
1
4
11
1
35
82
211
2,500

(b) No person holding any of the
ranks set forth in the table in division (a) of this section shall perform any work which is of the same
nature as, or included in the duties
of any other classified employee of
the City, except as is immediately
necessary to the performance of the
duties of such rank and as is necessarily incidental thereto.
Section 2. That existing Section
135.09 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 559-03, passed May
12, 2003, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 412-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Springco Metal Finishings, Inc. to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance site improvements, including road and other improvements to
the property located at 3340 West
137th Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement
with Springco Metal Finishings, Inc.
to provide economic development

May 7, 2008
assistance to partially finance site
improvements, including road and
other improvements to the property
located at 3340 West 137th Street.
Section 2. That the costs of the
grant shall not exceed an amount of
$50,000 and shall be paid from Fund
No. 17 SF 652, Request No. 185909.
Section 3. That the agreement and
other appropriate documents needed
to complete the transaction authorized by this legislation shall be prepared by the Director of Law.
Section 4. That the contract authorized in this legislation will require
the recipient of financial assistance
to work with The Workforce Investment Board for Workforce Area No.
3 to identify and solicit qualified
candidates
for
job
opportunities
related to the City’s contracts, and
place special emphasis on the hard
to employ, including but not limited
to the disabled and persons who
have been convicted of or have pled
guilty to a criminal offense, unless
the criminal conviction or circumstances relate to the duties for the
particular job sought.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 441-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide services necessary to design, layout, produce,
and distribute 2008 and 2009 annual
reports and other customer public
information and promotional materials, for the various divisions of the
Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to design, layout,
produce, and distribute 2008 and
2009 annual reports and other customer public information and promotional materials, including but
not limited to writing, photography
and
artwork
offset
lithographic
reproduction, for the various divisions of the Department of Public
Utilities.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by

The City Record
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public Utilities from a list of qualified consultants available for employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Public Utilities for the purpose of
compiling a list. The compensation
to be paid for the services shall be
fixed by the Board of Control. The
contract
or
contracts
authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Utilities, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF 001,
54 SF 001, and 58 SF 001, Request
No. 181921.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 442-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of labor and
materials needed to remove CEI utility poles, mast arms, luminaries and
any attachments, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for a term not to exceed
one or two years of the necessary
items of labor and materials needed
to remove CEI utility poles, mast
arms, luminaries and any attachments, in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
on a unit basis for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Utilities is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years

901

37
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Utilities by
comparing the bids received for both
terms.
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 169131)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 443-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to design, configure, and
install a street lighting call center
system, including project management or other related services, and
to employ one or more computer
software developers or vendors necessary to acquire or develop software necessary to implement the
system; authorizing the purchase by
one or more requirement and standard contracts for hardware and
software not otherwise acquired,
and other necessary materials, equipment, supplies and services necessary for the project, including labor
if necessary, for the Division of
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities, for a period of
one year, with two one-year options
to renew, the second of which is
exercisable through additional legislative authority.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
employ by contract or contracts one

38
or more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to design, configure,
and install a street lighting call center system, including project management or other related services,
and to employ one or more computer software developers or vendors
necessary to acquire or develop software necessary to implement the
system, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of one
year, with two one-year options to
renew. The first of the one-year
options to renew may be exercised
by the Director of Public Utilities,
without the necessity of obtaining
additional authority of this Council.
The second of the one-year options
to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative authority.
The selection of the consultants,
computer software developers, or
vendors shall be made by the Board
of Control on the nomination of the
Director of Public Utilities from a
list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Public
Utilities for the purpose of compiling a list. The compensation to be
paid for the services shall be fixed
by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall
be prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Public
Utilities, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is authorized to
make one or more written standard
purchase and written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the period of one year
with two one-year options to renew
for the necessary items of hardware
and software not otherwise acquired
under this ordinance, and for materials, equipment, supplies, and services necessary to implement the
system, including labor if necessary,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a
unit basis for the various divisions
of the Department of Public Utilities. The first of the one-year
options to renew may be exercised
by the Director of Public Utilities,
without the necessity of obtaining
additional authority of this Council.
The second of the one-year options
to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Utilities may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized under
this ordinance shall be paid from
Fund No. 58 SF 001, Request No.
169132.

The City Record
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 446-08.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by one or more
requirement contracts of traffic signal and pavement marking equipment, including but not limited to
poles, signals, controllers, aluminum, sign blanks, traffic paint,
beads, hardware, related incidental
supplies and materials, and labor
when necessary, and receiving scrap
aluminum sign blank credit, for the
Division of Traffic Engineering,
Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year or two years
of the necessary items of traffic signal and pavement marking equipment, including but not limited to
poles,
signals,
controllers,
aluminum, sign blanks, traffic paint,
beads, hardware, related incidental
supplies and materials, and labor
when necessary, and receiving scrap
aluminum sign blank credit, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Division of Traffic
Engineering, Department of Public
Service. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
The Director of Public Service is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts with a term of two years
instead of one year when there is a
financial advantage to the City. For
purposes of this ordinance, a financial advantage shall be determined
by the Director of Public Service by
comparing the bids received for both
terms. Under Section 181.15 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the contract or contracts
may include a trade-in allowance for
the aluminum sign blanks.

902

May 7, 2008
Section 2. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance. (RL 180507)
Section 3. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Service may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 458-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 717-05,
passed July 13, 2005, relating to land
reutilization programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 183.021 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 717-05, passed July 13,
2005, is amended to read as follows:
Section 183.021 Land Reutilization
Programs
(a) Residential Land Bank.
(1) The Director of Community
Development
shall
administer
a
Land Reutilization Program for residential property established under
Chapter 5722 of the Revised Code
and adopted and implemented by
Ordinance 2076-76, passed October 25,
1976, and shall perform the duties
specified in Chapter 5722.06 of the
Revised Code. Land acquired as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
for residential property may be
referred to as Residential Land
Bank property. If Residential Land
Bank property is sold, it shall be
sold according to the terms of Chapter 5722 of the Revised Code, without competitive bidding, for not less
than fair market value, with refer-

May 7, 2008
ence to such terms and conditions,
restrictions and covenants to assure
the effective reutilization of the
land, as the Board of Control shall
authorize, and the land shall be conveyed notwithstanding any other
provisions of the Codified Ordinances to the contrary.
(2) If a member of Council disapproves in writing to the use of the
process described in division (a)(3)
for selling property in the Residential Land Bank in his or her ward
and files written disapproval in File
No. 1547-90-A, then that process shall
not be used for the selling of the
property in his or her ward.
(3) The Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies when directed
by the Director of Community Development with the prior consent of the
member or members of Council in
whose ward or wards the land to be
sold is located, is authorized to sell
any land in the Residential Land
Bank to an abutting or adjacent
landowner if the land is either less
than
forty-eight
hundred
(4,800)
square feet or less than forty (40)
feet of street frontage and if the
landowner purchasing the land is
neither tax delinquent or has any
existing Building or Housing Code
violations. The consideration for
any land sold under the authority of
this division shall be fixed by the
Board of Control in accordance with
division (a)(1) of this section. Each
instrument of conveyance shall contain provisions and use restrictions
as
Council
deems
necessary
or
appropriate to protect the interests
of the neighborhood and the City.
(4) Any land in the Residential
Land Bank that is not authorized to
be sold by the Director of Community
Development
in
accordance
with division (a)(3) of this section
shall only be sold when authorized
by ordinance passed by the Council.
(5) Before the acquisition of any
residential property with multiple
parcels into the Residential Land
Bank, the Director of Community
Development shall conduct all appropriate inquiries in accordance
with rules adopted by the United
States
Environmental
Protection
Agency under the requirements of
the Small Business Liability Relief
and Brownfields Revitalization Act
(Pub. L. No. 107-118, 115 stat. 2356).
(b) Industrial-Commercial Land
Bank.
(1) The Director of Economic Development shall administer a Land
Reutilization Program for industrial
and commercial property established
under Chapter 5722 of the Revised
Code and adopted and implemented
by Ordinance 2076-76, passed October
25, 1976, and shall perform the
duties specified in Chapter 5722.06 of
the Revised Code. Land acquired as
part of the Land Reutilization Program for industrial and commercial
property may be referred to as Industrial-Commercial Land Bank property. If Industrial-Commercial Land
Bank property is sold, it shall be
sold according to the terms of Chapter 5722 of the Revised Code, without competitive bidding, for not less
than fair market value, with reference to such terms and conditions,
restrictions and covenants to assure

The City Record
the effective reutilization of the
land, as the Board of Control shall
authorize, and the land shall be conveyed notwithstanding any other
provisions of the Codified Ordinances to the contrary.
(2) If a member of Council disapproves in writing to the use of the
process described in division (b)(3)
for selling property in the Industrial-Commercial Land Bank in his or
her ward and files written disapproval in File No. 1547-90-A, then
that process shall not be used for
the selling of the property in his or
her ward.
(3) The Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies when directed
by the Director of Economic Development with the prior consent of the
member or members of Council in
whose ward or wards the land to be
sold is located, is authorized to sell
any land in the Industrial-Commercial Land Bank to an abutting or
adjacent landowner if the land is
either less than forty-eight hundred
(4,800) square feet or less than forty
(40) feet of street frontage and if
the landowner purchasing the land
is neither tax delinquent or has any
existing Building or Housing Code
violations. The consideration for
any land sold under the authority of
this division shall be fixed by the
Board of Control in accordance with
division (b)(1) of this section. Each
instrument of conveyance shall contain provisions and use restrictions
as
Council
deems
necessary
or
appropriate to protect the interests
of the neighborhood and the City.
(4) Any land in the IndustrialCommercial Land Bank that is not
authorized to be sold by the Director of Economic Development in
accordance with division (b)(3) of
this section shall only be sold when
authorized by ordinance passed by
the Council.
(5) The Director of Economic Development is authorized to deposit
the proceeds from the sale of any
industrial or commercial property
from the Industrial-Commercial Land
Bank into Special Revenue Fund No.
17 SF 965. This fund shall be used
for costs associated with acquisition
and disposition of industrial and
commercial property as part of this
Land Reutilization Program. Further, funds received by the City of
Cleveland as a result of direct insurance claim settlements, cost recovery efforts initiated by the Land
Reutilization Program for industrial
and commercial property, demolition
or remediation actions as a result of
the Program, and grants, donations
or any other sources pledged to the
Program shall be deposited in Special Revenue Fund No. 17 SF 965.
(6) The Director of Economic Development is authorized to execute
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
all necessary documents to employ
and pay all fees for title companies,
surveys, escrows, appraisers, environmental insurance, environmental
investigations, remediation, and all
other costs necessary for the acquisition and disposition of the property. That the costs of these contracts
shall be paid from Fund 17 SF 965
and from any other funds or subfunds which are appropriated for
this use.

903

39
(7) Before the acquisition of any
industrial or commercial property
into the Industrial-Commercial Land
Bank, the Director of Economic Development shall conduct all appropriate inquiries in accordance with
rules adopted by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency
under the requirements of the Small
Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act (Pub. L. No.
107-118, 115 stat. 2356).
Section 2. That existing Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 717-05, passed July 13,
2005, is repealed.
Section 3. That not later than
March 1 and September 1 of each
year, the Director of Economic
Development shall report to the
Clerk of Council on the Land Reutilization Program for industrial and
commercial properties. The report
shall include an inventory of the
properties held in the IndustrialCommercial Land Bank, the amount
of funds contained in the special
revenue fund referenced in Section
183.21,
division
(b)(5),
and
the
amount of funds received since the
last report.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 496-08.
By Council Members Brady and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 12 of Ordinance No. 55-07,
passed March 26, 2007, relating to
the rehabilitation of Bellaire Road
from West 117th Street to West
105th Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 12 of Ordinance No. 55-07, passed March 26,
2007, is amended to read as follows:
Section 12. That the costs of the
contracts and property acquisition
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF
364, 20 SF 373, 20 SF 380, 20 SF 383,
20 SF 394, 20 SF 500, 20 SF 506, 52
SF 001, 54 SF 001, the cash match
identified in Ordinance No. 608-06,
passed June 12, 2006, from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted under Ordinance No. 608-06, passed June 12,
2006, from the fund or funds to
which are credited the proceeds of
any bonds issued for this purpose,
and from any other funds deemed
appropriate
by
the
Director
of
Finance. (RL 166674 and 175525)
Section 2. That existing Section 12
of Ordinance No. 55-07, passed March
26, 2007, is repealed.

40
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 499-08.
By Council Members Cleveland
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 171.43 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2153-99,
passed March 6, 2000, relating to
vehicle mileage allowance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 171.43 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 2153-99, passed March
6, 2000, is amended to read as follows:
Section 171.43 Vehicle Mileage Allowance
In addition to the salary fixed for
the position occupied in the City service, any employee whose duties
require the use of a motor vehicle,
and any person performing the functions of a public office as described
in Section 7701(a)(26) of the Internal Revenue Code and authorized by
the appointing authority to be eligible for vehicle mileage allowance,
may be compensated for the use of
his vehicle in the performance of his
duties at the rate not to exceed the
IRS Standard Rate per mile as set
by the Director of Finance and published in the City Record from time
to time. The Director of Finance
may also establish rules and regulations governing reimbursement for
mileage which shall take effect
after publication, in the City Record
for two consecutive weeks. Nothing
in this section shall be deemed to
apply to Deputy Bailiffs of the
Municipal Court.
Section 2. That existing Section
171.43 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 2153-99, passed
March 6, 2000, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

The City Record
Ord. No. 655-08.
By Council Members Cummins and
Kelley.
An emergency ordinance amending
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1142-07
passed July 11, 2007 as it pertains to
authorizing the Director of the City
Planning Commission to enter into an
agreement with the Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation for
the Transportation for Livable Communities Study through the use of
Ward(s) 15 and 16 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1142-07 passed July 11,
2007 is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $18,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1142-07 passed July 11,
2007 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 656-08.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing an amendment to the terms of
the loan previously authorized pursuant to Ordinance No. 1420-07,
passed October 1, 2007, which authorized the Director of Economic Development to enter into contract
with Detroit Shoreway Community
Development Organization, to provide development assistance to partially finance the renovation of the
Capitol Theatre located at 1400 West
65th Street, and certain other costs
necessary to redevelop the property.
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1420-07,
passed October 1, 2007 (the “Ordinance”), authorizes the Director of
Economic Development to enter into
contract
with
Detroit
Shoreway
Community Development Organization, to provide development assistance to partially finance the renovation of the Capitol Theatre located at 1400 West 65th Street, and certain other costs necessary to redevelop the property; and
Whereas, under Section 2 of the
Ordinance, the terms of the loan are
to be according to the terms set
forth in the Summary contained in
File No. 1420-07-A, approved and made
a part of the Ordinance, and not to
be changed without additional legislative authority; and

904

May 7, 2008
Whereas, it is determined that an
amendment must be made to the
terms of the loan in order to comply with federal regulations set
forth in the New Markets Tax Credit program; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the terms of the loan
authorized in Ordinance No. 1420-07,
passed October 1, 2007, shall be amended as set forth in the Summary contained in File No. 1420-07-B, which
shall replace File No. 1420-07-A in its
entirety, and is made a part of the
Ordinance as if fully rewritten, and
which is approved in all respects and
shall not be changed without additional legislative authority.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 658-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 668-01,
passed April 9, 2001 relating to certain expenditures by the Clerk of
Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1of Ordinance No. 668-01 passed April 9, 2001
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council or the Clerk’s designee is authorized to expend funds to provide coffee and other beverages to members
of Council, the Council’s staff, and
persons conducting business with
the Council in Council’s offices and
to provide tokens of condolence or
congratulations to members of Council, Council’s staff and members of
the community as may be necessary.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 668-01 passed April
9, 2001 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

May 7, 2008
Ord. No. 660-08.
By Council Members Mitchell,
Lewis, Pierce Scott, Conwell, Santiago, Zone, Cimperman and Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the 30th RiteAid Marathon and 10K, May 18, 2008, sponsored by Cleveland Marathon, Inc.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the 30th RiteAid
Marathon and 10K sponsored by
Cleveland Marathon, Inc. on May 18,
2008, with the Marathon starting at
St. Clair and East 13th Street, St.
Clair to East 18th Street, East 18th
to Lakeside, Lakeside to East 9th,
East 9th to Erieside, Erieside to Al
Lerner Way, Al Lerner Way to West
3rd, West 3rd to Lakeside, Lakeside
to west bound Shoreway, west bound
Shoreway to Edgewater Drive exit,
Edgewater Drive to West 117th,
West 117th to Lake Avenue, Lake
Avenue to Clifton east bound Shoreway entrance, east bound Shoreway
to West 45th exit, West 45th to
Franklin, Franklin to Fulton, Fulton
to
Lorain,
Lorain
to
Carnegie,
Carnegie to East 14th, East 14th to
Euclid, (Half Marathon turns on
East 17th to St. Clair, St. Clair to
Finish Line) Euclid to East 40th,
East 40th to Chester, Chester to
Euclid
Avenue,
Euclid
to
East
Boulevard, East Boulevard to MLK,
MLK to N. Marginal, N. Marginal to
bike path, bike path through State
park, fishing bridge to East 55th,
East 55th to S. Marginal, S. Marginal to West 3rd on ramp, West 3rd
ramp to West 3rd, West 3rd to Lakeside, Lakeside to West 9th, West 9th
to Superior, Superior to West 3rd,
West 3rd to Lakeside, Lakeside to
East 18th, East 18th to St. Clair, St.
Clair to East 12th, finish; 10K starting at St. Clair & East 13th Street,
St. Clair to East 18th, East 18th to
Lakeside, Lakeside to East 9th, East
9th to Erieside, Erieside to West 3rd
(around stadium), West 3rd to Lakeside, Lakeside to west bound Shoreway on ramp, west bound Shoreway
to West 28th exit ramp, West 28th
to Detroit, Detroit to West 32nd,
West 32nd to Franklin, Franklin to
West 28th, West 28th to east bound
Shoreway on ramp, east bound
Shoreway to Lakeside, Lakeside to
East 18th, East 18th to St. Clair, St.
Clair to East 12th, finish, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liabil-

The City Record
ity resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 661-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Club Alma Yaucano to stretch banners at the intersection of West 25th
& Barber, for the period from June
17, 2008 to July 16, 2008, inclusive,
publicizing the Coffee Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Service is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a permit to install,
maintain and remove banners at the
intersection of West 25th & Barber,
from June 17, 2008 to July 16, 2008,
inclusive. Said banners shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Safety, as to type, method of affixing and location so as to not interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

Ord. No. 663-08.
By Council Member Cleveland.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development to
stretch banners at East 55th & Scovill near East Tech and East 39th &

905

41
Community College Avenue, northeast side, for the period from May
28, 2008 to June 28, 2008, inclusive,
publicizing the 3rd Annual Ward 5
Family Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Burten, Bell, Carr
Development to install, maintain
and remove banners at East 55th &
Scovill near East Tech and East
39th & Community College Avenue,
northeast side for the period from
May 28, 2008 to June 28, 2008, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved
by the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 28, 2008.
Effective May 2, 2008.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, May 5, 2008
9:30 a.m.
Public Parks, Property and Recreation Committee: Present: Johnson,
Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Turner, Cummins, Kelley. Authorized Absence: Polensek.
2:00 p.m.
Finance
Committee:
Present:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair;
Brady,
Zone,
Westbrook,
Brancatelli, Coats, Turner, White,
Conwell, Pierce Scott.
Tuesday May 6, 2008
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Cimperman, Coats.

The City Record

42

May 7, 2008

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company - Street lighting Rate (O 682-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Loan agreements - financial assistance - $ 250,000 - amend Ord. 461-06 (O 697-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
Rehabilitation of Belvoir Boulevard (Euclid Ave. & South Euclid) - amend Ord.
2332-03 (O 690-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875

Annual Reports
Annual reports for 2008 & 2009 - professional services - Utilities Dept (O 441-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901

Appropriations
Code Enforcement Program - administrative expenses - Community Development Block Grant
funds (O 600-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development Department - administrative expenses - Community Development Block
Grant & NEF Administrative Cost funds - SAS software maintenance - contracts —
Executive Information Systems, LLC (O 597-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Demolition Program - emergency contracts under the Board-up Program - CDBG (O 594-08) . . . . . . .
Fair Housing Program - expenses - Community Development Block Grant funds _
Community Relations (O 595-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Rehabilitation Programs - CDBG and Federal HOME Program funds - Section 8 Housing
Quality Standards - property inspections - professional consultants (O 596-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Clean Program - Community Development Block Grant funds - Parks, Recreation and
Properties (O 593-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program - expenses - Community
Development Block Grant funds (O 599-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 889

. . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Banners
3rd Annual Ward 5 Family Festival - May 28, 2008 to June 28, 2008 - Burten, Bell, Carr
Development (O 663-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
Coffee Festival - June 17, 2008 - July 16, 2008 - Club Alma Yaucano (O 661-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905

Blight
Declaring property located at 11850 Lorain Ave. blighted - sell to Westown Community
Development Corp. (O 504-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897

Board of Control - Community Development Department
East 116th Street (Ward 4) - PPN 128-27-095 - Amjad Hamdeh per Ord. 360-08 (BOC Res. 210-08)
East 66th Street (Ward 5) - PPN 124-02-020/021/022 - First Bethel Baptist Church per Ord.
4-08 (BOC Res. 213-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 81st Street (Ward 7) - PPN 106-07-044 - Kenneth Oliver per Ord. 1823-07 (BOC Res. 211-08) .
East 84th Street (Ward 6) - PPN 126-03-063, 126-04-068 - Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation per Ord. 413-08 (BOC Res. 212-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Simon Avenue, 8125 (Ward 8) - PPN 107-05-133 - Doloris Robinson (BOC Res. 214-08) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

Board of Control - Health Division
Cremations and burials of indigent dead - contract per Ord. 683-07 to Lee Road
Development, LLC, d.b.a., R.A. Prince Funeral Services - Dept. of Public Health
(BOC Res. 208-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program
East 116th Street (Ward 4) - PPN 128-27-095 - Amjad Hamdeh per Ord. 360-08 (BOC Res. 210-08)
East 66th Street (Ward 5) - PPN 124-02-020/021/022 - First Bethel Baptist Church per Ord.
4-08 (BOC Res. 213-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 81st Street (Ward 7) - PPN 106-07-044 - Kenneth Oliver per Ord. 1823-07 (BOC Res. 211-08) .
East 84th Street (Ward 6) - PPN 126-03-063, 126-04-068 - Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation per Ord. 413-08 (BOC Res. 212-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Simon Avenue, 8125 (Ward 8) - PPN 107-05-133 - Doloris Robinson (BOC Res. 214-08) . . . . . . . . . .

906

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

The City Record

May 7, 2008

43

Board of Control - Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Gasoline - contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to
Service (BOC Res. 206-08) . . . . . . . . .
Gasoline - contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to
of Public Service (BOC Res. 205-08)

Great Lakes Petroleum Co. - Dept. of Public
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Petroleum Traders Corporation - Dept.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Board of Control - Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Food, food products, beverages, condiments and paper products for Camp Forbes - per Ord.
1033-07 - all bids rejected - Division of Recreation (BOC Res. 209-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

Board of Control - Port Control Department
Planning study preparation - approve subcontractor - Contract #66752 per BOC Res. 137-07
(BOC Res. 201-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control - Professional Service Contracts
Planning study preparation - approve subcontractor - Contract #66752 per BOC Res. 137-07
- Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 201-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control - Public Health Department
Cremations and burials of indigent dead - contract per Ord. 683-07 to Lee Road
Development, LLC, d.b.a., R.A. Prince Funeral Services - Division of Health (BOC Res. 208-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

Board of Control - Public Improvement Contracts
Big Creek Watershed Stormwater Management Improvement Project, Phase I (Stream
Restoration, General, Culvert) - rescind BOC Res. 64-08, 65-08 - contract per Ord.
952-05 to Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co. - Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 200-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Distribution mains - Area 2007-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of approve subcontractor - Contract #66747 per BOC Res. 148-07 - Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 198-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Highland-Trebisky Water Main Rehabilitation Project - approve subcontractor - Contract
#66541 per BOC Res. 49-07 - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 197-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control - Public Service Department
Debris, construction and demolition, disposal of - contract per Ord. 1604-07
to Kurtz Brothers, Inc. - Division of Waste Collection and Disposal (BOC Res. 204-08) .
Gasoline - contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Great Lakes Petroleum Co. - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 206-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gasoline - contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Petroleum Traders Corporation - Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 205-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grinding of streets - contract per Ord. 910-07 to The Shelly Company - Division of
Streets (BOC Res. 207-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grinding of streets - rescind BOC Res. 171-08 - Division of Streets (BOC Res. 202-08) . . . . . . .
Tires, transfer and disposal of (Contract T) - contract per Ord. 1603-07 to Liberty Tire
Services of Ohio, LLC - Division of Waste Collection and Disposal (BOC Res. 203-08) . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Board of Control - Public Utilities Department
Big Creek Watershed Stormwater Management Improvement Project, Phase I (Stream
Restoration, General, Culvert) - rescind BOC Res. 64-08, 65-08 - contract per Ord.
952-05 to Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co. - Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 200-08)
Cab / chassis with dry goods van body, body conversion and technical equipment (TV-23)
- contract per Ord. 1237-07 to Supreme Corporation (BOC Res. 199-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Distribution mains - Area 2007-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of approve subcontractor - Contract #66747 per BOC Res. 148-07 - Division of Water
(BOC Res. 198-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Highland-Trebisky Water Main Rehabilitation Project - approve subcontractor - Contract
#66541 per BOC Res. 49-07 - Division of Water (BOC Res. 197-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 891
. . . . . . . . . . 891

. . . . . . . . . . 891
. . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control - Recreation Division
Food, food products, beverages, condiments and paper products for Camp Forbes - per Ord.
1033-07 - all bids rejected - Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 209-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

907

The City Record

44

May 7, 2008

Board of Control - Requirement Contracts
Cremations and burials of indigent dead - contract per Ord. 683-07 to Lee Road
Development, LLC, d.b.a., R.A. Prince Funeral Services - Division of Health, Dept.
of Public Health (BOC Res. 208-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debris, construction and demolition, disposal of - contract per Ord. 1604-07
to Kurtz Brothers, Inc. - Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 204-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gasoline - contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Great Lakes Petroleum Co. - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 206-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gasoline - contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Petroleum Traders Corporation - Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 205-08) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grinding of streets - contract per Ord. 910-07 to The Shelly Company - Division of
Streets, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 207-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tires, transfer and disposal of (Contract T) - contract per Ord. 1603-07 to Liberty Tire
Services of Ohio, LLC - Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 203-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Board of Control - Standard Purchase Contracts
Cab / chassis with dry goods van body, body conversion and technical equipment (TV-23) —
contract per Ord. 1237-07 to Supreme Corporation - Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 199-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control - Streets Division
Grinding of streets - contract per Ord. 910-07 to The Shelly Company - Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 207-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Grinding of streets - rescind BOC Res. 171-08 - Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 202-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Board of Control - Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Debris, construction and demolition, disposal of - contract per Ord. 1604-07
to Kurtz Brothers, Inc. - Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 204-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Tires, transfer and disposal of (Contract T) - contract per Ord. 1603-07 to Liberty Tire
Services of Ohio, LLC - Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 203-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Board of Control - Water Division
Distribution mains - Area 2007-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of approve subcontractor - Contract #66747 per BOC Res. 148-07 - Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 198-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Highland-Trebisky Water Main Rehabilitation Project - approve subcontractor - Contract
#66541 per BOC Res. 49-07 - Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 197-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control - Water Pollution Control Division
Big Creek Watershed Stormwater Management Improvement Project, Phase I (Stream
Restoration, General, Culvert) - rescind BOC Res. 64-08, 65-08 - contract per Ord.
952-05 to Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co. - Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 200-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control - Community Development Department
East 116th Street (Ward 4) - PPN 128-27-095 - Amjad Hamdeh per Ord. 360-08 (BOC Res. 210-08)
East 66th Street (Ward 5) - PPN 124-02-020/021/022 - First Bethel Baptist Church per Ord.
4-08 (BOC Res. 213-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 81st Street (Ward 7) - PPN 106-07-044 - Kenneth Oliver per Ord. 1823-07 (BOC Res. 211-08) .
East 84th Street (Ward 6) - PPN 126-03-063, 126-04-068 - Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation per Ord. 413-08 (BOC Res. 212-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Simon Avenue, 8125 (Ward 8) - PPN 107-05-133 - Doloris Robinson (BOC Res. 214-08) . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

Board of Control - Health Division
Cremations and burials of indigent dead - contract per Ord. 683-07 to Lee Road
Development, LLC, d.b.a., R.A. Prince Funeral Services - Dept. of Public Health
(BOC Res. 208-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program
East 116th Street (Ward 4) - PPN 128-27-095 - Amjad Hamdeh per Ord. 360-08 (BOC Res. 210-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
East 66th Street (Ward 5) - PPN 124-02-020/021/022 - First Bethel Baptist Church per Ord.
4-08 (BOC Res. 213-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
East 81st Street (Ward 7) - PPN 106-07-044 - Kenneth Oliver per Ord. 1823-07 (BOC Res. 211-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

908

May 7, 2008

The City Record

45

East 84th Street (Ward 6) - PPN 126-03-063, 126-04-068 - Fairfax Renaissance Development
Corporation per Ord. 413-08 (BOC Res. 212-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
Simon Avenue, 8125 (Ward 8) - PPN 107-05-133 - Doloris Robinson (BOC Res. 214-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

Board of Control - Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Gasoline - contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Great Lakes Petroleum Co. - Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 206-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Gasoline - contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Petroleum Traders Corporation - Dept.
of Public Service (BOC Res. 205-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Board of Control - Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Food, food products, beverages, condiments and paper products for Camp Forbes - per Ord.
1033-07 - all bids rejected - Division of Recreation (BOC Res. 209-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

Board of Control - Port Control Department
Planning study preparation - approve subcontractor - Contract #66752 per BOC Res. 137-07
(BOC Res. 201-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control - Professional Service Contracts
Planning study preparation - approve subcontractor - Contract #66752 per BOC Res. 137-07—
Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 201-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control - Public Health Department
Cremations and burials of indigent dead - contract per Ord. 683-07 to Lee Road
Development, LLC, d.b.a., R.A. Prince Funeral Services - Division of Health (BOC Res. 208-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

Board of Control - Public Improvement Contracts
Big Creek Watershed Stormwater Management Improvement Project, Phase I (Stream
Restoration, General, Culvert) - rescind BOC Res. 64-08, 65-08 - contract per Ord.
952-05 to Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co. - Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept.
of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 200-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Distribution mains - Area 2007-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of approve subcontractor - Contract #66747 per BOC Res. 148-07 - Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 198-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Highland-Trebisky Water Main Rehabilitation Project - approve subcontractor - Contract
#66541 per BOC Res. 49-07 - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 197-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control - Public Service Department
Debris, construction and demolition, disposal of - contract per Ord. 1604-07
to Kurtz Brothers, Inc. - Division of Waste Collection and Disposal (BOC Res. 204-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Gasoline - contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Great Lakes Petroleum Co. - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 206-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Gasoline - contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Petroleum Traders Corporation - Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance (BOC Res. 205-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Grinding of streets - contract per Ord. 910-07 to The Shelly Company - Division of
Streets (BOC Res. 207-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Grinding of streets - rescind BOC Res. 171-08 - Division of Streets (BOC Res. 202-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Tires, transfer and disposal of (Contract T) - contract per Ord. 1603-07 to Liberty Tire
Services of Ohio, LLC - Division of Waste Collection and Disposal (BOC Res. 203-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Board of Control - Public Utilities Department
Big Creek Watershed Stormwater Management Improvement Project, Phase I (Stream
Restoration, General, Culvert) - rescind BOC Res. 64-08, 65-08 - contract per Ord.
952-05 to Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co. - Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 200-08) . . . . . . . . . . 891
Cab / chassis with dry goods van body, body conversion and technical equipment (TV-23)
- contract per Ord. 1237-07 to Supreme Corporation (BOC Res. 199-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Distribution mains - Area 2007-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of approve subcontractor - Contract #66747 per BOC Res. 148-07 - Division of Water
(BOC Res. 198-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Highland-Trebisky Water Main Rehabilitation Project - approve subcontractor - Contract
#66541 per BOC Res. 49-07 - Division of Water (BOC Res. 197-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

909

The City Record

46

May 7, 2008

Board of Control - Recreation Division
Food, food products, beverages, condiments and paper products for Camp Forbes - per Ord.
1033-07 - all bids rejected - Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 209-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

Board of Control - Requirement Contracts
Cremations and burials of indigent dead - contract per Ord. 683-07 to Lee Road
Development, LLC, d.b.a., R.A. Prince Funeral Services - Division of Health, Dept.
of Public Health (BOC Res. 208-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debris, construction and demolition, disposal of - contract per Ord. 1604-07
to Kurtz Brothers, Inc. - Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 204-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gasoline - contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Great Lakes Petroleum Co. - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 206-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gasoline - contract per C.O. Sec. 131.18 to Petroleum Traders Corporation - Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 205-08) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grinding of streets - contract per Ord. 910-07 to The Shelly Company - Division of
Streets, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 207-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tires, transfer and disposal of (Contract T) - contract per Ord. 1603-07 to Liberty Tire
Services of Ohio, LLC - Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 203-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Board of Control - Standard Purchase Contracts —
Cab / chassis with dry goods van body, body conversion and technical equipment (TV-23)
contract per Ord. 1237-07 to Supreme Corporation - Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 199-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control - Streets Division
Grinding of streets - contract per Ord. 910-07 to The Shelly Company - Dept. of Public
Service (BOC Res. 207-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Grinding of streets - rescind BOC Res. 171-08 - Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 202-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Board of Control - Waste Collection and Disposal Division
Debris, construction and demolition, disposal of - contract per Ord. 1604-07
to Kurtz Brothers, Inc. - Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 204-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Tires, transfer and disposal of (Contract T) - contract per Ord. 1603-07 to Liberty Tire
Services of Ohio, LLC - Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 203-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Board of Control - Water Division
Distribution mains - Area 2007-A, cleaning and cement mortar lining of approve subcontractor - Contract #66747 per BOC Res. 148-07 - Dept. of Public
Utilities (BOC Res. 198-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Highland-Trebisky Water Main Rehabilitation Project - approve subcontractor - Contract
#66541 per BOC Res. 49-07 - Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 197-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control - Water Pollution Control Division
Big Creek Watershed Stormwater Management Improvement Project, Phase I (Stream
Restoration, General, Culvert) - rescind BOC Res. 64-08, 65-08 - contract per Ord.
952-05 to Fabrizi Trucking & Paving Co. - Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 200-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Zoning Appeals - Report
Bellaire Road, 10606, (Ward 19) – Ennan and Essam Abdallah, owners - appeal granted and
adopted on 4/28/08 (Cal. 07-239) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brayton Avenue, 748, (Ward 13) – Carly Cahlik, owner - appeal granted and adopted
on 4/28/08 (Cal. 08-61) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 116th Street, 1719, (Ward 9) – Case Western Reserve University, owner - appeal heard
on 5/5/08 (Cal. 08-65) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 162nd Street, 4624, (Ward 1) – Rashawn Ford, owner - appeal denied and adopted on
4/28/08 (Cal. 08-63). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 11635, (Ward 9) – University Circle Development Foundation, owner - appeal
heard on 5/5/08 (Cal. 08-66) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ivanhoe Road, 1170, (Ward 10) – 1170 Ivanhoe Road, LLC, owner - appeal postponed to
6/09/08 on 5/5/08 (Cal. 08-64) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Literary Road, 801, (Ward 13) – BH&R Properties and Sean Whalen, owners—
appeal postponed to 6/16/08 on 5/5/08 (Cal. 08-42) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mayfield Road, 11901, (Ward 6) – Constance Perotti, owner and Mayfield Lofts LLC - appeal
granted and adopted on 4/28/08 (Cal. 08-29) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

910

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895

May 7, 2008

The City Record

47

Pearl Road, 5000, (Ward 16) – Myron Kaplan, owner - appeal granted and adopted on 4/28/08
(Cal. 08-55) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Soika Avenue, 12222, (Ward 3) – Abdul Muhammad, aka AKM Properties Management LLC, owner—
appeal postponed to 6/9/08 on 5/5/08 (Cal. 07-261) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 17149, (Ward 11) – All City Recycling, owner and Craig Miller, legal
counsel - appeal heard on 5/5/08 (Cal. 07-117) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 1901 , (Ward 14) – Metzner Building LLC, owner and Natalie Roelle and
David Stalter, tenants, - appeal withdrawn on 5/5/08 (Cal. 08-28) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 63rd Street, 3136-42, (Ward 17) – Richard Kassouf, owner - appeal heard on 5/5/08
(Cal. 08-41) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . 895
. . . . . . . . . 895

Board of Zoning Appeals - Schedule
Cedar Avenue, 7814, (Ward 5) – Mahmoud Jaber, owner - appeal to be heard
on 5/19/2008 (Cal. 08-75) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 114th Street, 2633, (Ward 6) – Charleen Johnson-Miller, owner - appeal to be heard
on 5/19/2008 (Cal. 08-74) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meech Avenue, 10012, (Ward 2) – John McCurley, owner - appeal to be heard on 5/19/2008
(Cal. 08-71) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meech Avenue, 9906, (Ward 2) – Waterlox Coatings Corporation, owner - appeal to be heard
on 5/19/2008 (Cal. 08-72) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4491-93, (Ward 16) – The Hannemann Trust, vendors, Robert Cutler and Donald
Nicholson, vendees, and Luis Muniz, prospective tenant, - appeal to be heard
on 5/19/2008 (Cal. 08-60) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

Building and Housing Department
Code Enforcement Program - administrative expenses - Community Development Block Grant
funds (O 600-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Demolition & Board-up Program - contracts (O 456-08)888
Demolition Program - emergency contracts under the Board-up Program - Appropriating CDBG
(O 594-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Utility shut-off in abandoned structures - new Sec. 367.16 (O 1112-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871-T
Utility shut-off in vacant and unsafe structures - new Section 3103.091 substitute for Ord. No. 1112-07 (O.1112-A-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868

City Clerk
Expenditures - amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 668-01 (O 658-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

City Council
Summer schedule of meetings (R 654-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899

City of Cleveland Bids
Ammunition - Department of Public Safety - Division of Police - per C.O. Sec. 135.065 bid due May 29, 2008 (advertised 5/7/2008 and 5/14/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electric motors and pumps - Department of Public Service - Division of Engineering and
Construction - per Ord. 1728-07 - bid due May 30, 2008 (advertised 5/7/2008 and 5/14/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Food, food products, beverages, condiments and paper products for Camp Forbes (Re-bid)—
Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties - Division of Recreation - per C.O.
Sec. 181.101 - bid due May 22, 2008 (advertised 5/7/2008 and 5/14/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Garage door repair at Seville Station - Department of Public Service - Division of
Architecture - per Ord. 535-07 - bid due May 29, 2008 (advertised 5/7/2008 and 5/14/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Heating and air conditioning replacement - Department of Public Utilities - Office
of Radio Communications - per Ord. 342-08 - bid due May 21, 2008 (advertised 4/30/2008 and 5/7/2008) . .
Material handling equipment (industrial trucks, sweepers, scrubbers, aerial lifts,
tractors) maintenance and repair - Department of Public Utilities - Division
of Water - per Ord. 1690-07 - bid due May 30, 2008 (advertised 4/30/2008 and 5/7/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office supplies - Department of Finance - per Ord. 1723-07 - bid due May 29, 2008
(advertised 4/30/2008 and 5/7/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pistols, 9MM, Models 19 and 19 - Department of Public Safety - Division of Police - per
Ord. 646-92 - bid due May 22, 2008 (advertised 4/30/2008 and 5/7/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential Sound Insulation Program (RSIP), Phase II, Contract A-06-2A (Re-Bid) Department of Port Control - Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport per Ord. 930-95, 469-98, 327-2000 - bid due May 21, 2008 (advertised 4/30/2008 and 5/7/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rifles - Department of Public Safety - Division of Police - per Ord. 646-92 - bid due May
22, 2008 (advertised 4/30/2008 and 5/7/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transformers for Juvenile Justice Center - Department of Public Utilities - Division of
Cleveland Public Power - per C.O. Sec. 129.26 - bid due May 30, 2008 (advertised 5/7/2008 and 5/14/2008)
Transmissions, remanufactured - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance - per Ord. 686-07 - bid due May 28, 2008 (advertised 4/30/2008 and 5/7/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

911

. . . . 898
. . . . 898

. . . . 898
. . . . 898
. . . . 898

. . . . 898
. . . . 898
. . . . 898

. . . . 897
. . . . 898
. . . . 898
. . . . 898

The City Record

48

May 7, 2008

Utility duct improvements at Highland Park Cemetery - Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties - Division of Research, Planning and Development - per Ord. 358-08 - bid
due May 21, 2008 (advertised 5/7/2008 and 5/14/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898

City Planning Commission
Change the Use District - E. 55th St. & Saint Clair Ave., (southeast corner) - Residence
Office District (O 703-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 100th & E. 101st ST., Cedar Ave. (south side) - change the use district - zoning
(O 362-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 33rd St. (west side) - north of Perkins Ave. - change the zoning - Residence Industry
District (O 298-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. & E. 117th ST., ( southwest corner) - Mayfield Rd. & E. 117th ST., ( northeast
corner)- change the use, area and height districts - zoning (O 361-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation - agreement - Transportation for Livable
Communities Study - amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1142-07 - Ward 15 & 16 NEF
(O 655-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

Clerk of Council
Expenditures - amend Sect. 1 of Ord. No. 668-01 (O 658-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI)
Street lighting Rate (O 682-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Contracts with Era Systems Corporation - maintain & support noise monitoring software at
CHIA (O 502-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Cleveland Municipal School District
Contracts - extracurricular programs (O 683-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Cleveland Public Power
Cleveland Public Power energy adjustment charge - amend 523.21 - amend Ord. 2068-05
(O 681-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Contract - recycling and disposal of various chemicals & hazardous hazmat (O 680-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Codified Ordinances
Cleveland Public Power energy adjustment charge - amend 523.21 - amend Ord. 2068-05
(O 681-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Declaring property located at 11850 Lorain Ave. blighted - sell to Westown Community
Development Corp. (O 504-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Land Reutilization Programs - Industrial Land Bank - amend Sect. 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances (O 458-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
Police Division - authorize police strength - amend Section 135.09 of the Codified
Ordinances (O 408-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Utility shut-off in abandoned structures - new Sec. 367.16 (O 1112-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871-T
Utility shut-off in vacant and unsafe structures - new Section 3103.091 —
substitute for Ord. No. 1112-07 (O.1112-A-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Vehicle mileage allowance - amend Section 171.43 of the Codified Ordinances (O 499-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
Commemoration
Chamberlain, Christine (R 724-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Communications
Pierce Scott, Council Member Sabra - recusal from voting on Ord. No. 679-08 (F 714-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Community Development
Administrative expenses - Community Development Block Grant & NEF Administrative Cost funds—
appropriation - SAS software maintenance - contracts - Executive Information
Systems, LLC (O 597-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Anti-predatory lending & foreclosure prevention assistance - CDBG - Consumer Affairs
(O 704-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882
CDBG - enter into or amend contracts with various social service agencies - for
neighborhood development activities (O 598-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

912

The City Record

May 7, 2008

49

Declaring property located at 11850 Lorain Ave. blighted - sell to Westown Community
Development Corp. (O 504-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Demolition Program - emergency contracts under the Board-up Program - Appropriating CDBG
(O 594-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 33rd St., - Land Reutilization Program - Shun Ting Mo & Catherine Yn Lau (O 707-08) . . . . . . . .
E. 33rd St., - Land Reutilization Program - Tam Ching Chuen (O 708-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 49th St. & E. 55th St. - Land Reutilization Program - Elabed, LLC (O 705-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., - Land Reutilization Program - Midtown Cleveland, Inc. (O 701-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fair Housing Program - expenses - Community Development Block Grant funds —
Community Relations (O 595-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Rehabilitation Programs - appropriate - CDBG and Federal HOME Program funds—
Section 8 Housing Quality Standards - property inspections professional consultants (O 596-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Land Reutilization Programs - Industrial Land Bank - amend Sect. 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances (O 458-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Clean Program - Community Development Block Grant funds - Parks, Recreation and
Properties (O 593-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program - expenses - Community
Development Block Grant funds (O 599-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To purchase & sell properties - 3503 & 3445 W. 123rd St. & 3747 W. 130th ST., - Westown
Community Development Corp. (O 359-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 97th St., - Land Reutilization Program - Adrian Halcomb (O 706-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

889
885
885
883
881

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884

Community Development Block Grant Program
Anti-predatory lending & foreclosure prevention assistance -Consumer Affairs (O 704-08) . . . . . . . . . .
CDBG - enter into or amend contracts with various social service agencies - for
neighborhood development activities (O 598-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Code Enforcement Program - administrative expenses (O 600-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development Department - administrative expenses - NEF Administrative Cost funds—
appropriation - SAS software maintenance - contracts - Executive Information
Systems, LLC (O 597-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 882
. . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . 889

. . . . . . . . . . 889

Community Development Block Grant Program
Demolition Program - emergency contracts under the Board-up Program - Appropriating CDBG
(O 594-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fair Housing Program - expenses - Community Relations (O 595-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Rehabilitation Programs - appropriate - CDBG and Federal HOME Program funds—
Section 8 Housing Quality Standards - property inspections professional consultants (O 596-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Clean Program - Parks, Recreation and Properties (O 593-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program - expenses (O 599-08). . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Community Relations Board
Fair Housing Program - expenses - Community Development Block Grant funds (O 595-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Condolences
Awyers, Stephanie Taylor (R 718-08)
Monroe, Joseph (R 715-08). . . . . . . . . .
Schell, S.J., Rev. Joseph O. (R 716-08)
Winbush, Ronald (R 717-08) . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

867
867
867
867

Congratulations
Gee, Ruby (R 720-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Homzy, Richard (R 719-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Venable, Jr., Andrew (R 721-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867

Consumer Affairs
Anti-predatory lending & foreclosure prevention assistance - CDBG (O 704-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882

Contracts
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating Bellaire Rd., (between West 130th St. & West 117th
St.) (O 686-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating Broadway Avenue ( I-77 to the east corporation line)
(O 687-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating East 30th St. (Woodland Ave. to St. Clair
Ave.) (O 688-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874

913

The City Record

50

May 7, 2008

Amend Contract No. 66986 - Grant agreement with Westside Industrial Retention and Expansion
Network (O 696-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amended Ordinance No. 911-07 - public improvement - Woodland Ave. & - Kinsman Rd. - Service
Dept. (O 350-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CDBG - enter into or amend contracts with various social service agencies - for
neighborhood development activities (O 598-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CedarCrestone, Inc. - to maintain PeopleSoft Financial Management System (O 678-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CEI utility poles removal - Utilities Dept. (O 442-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Board of Education - extracurricular programs (O 683-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Development Department - administrative expenses - Community - public improvement—
Utilities Department (O 270-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Demolition & Board-up Program - Building and Housing Dept. (O 456-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Director of Finance - Doan/Pyramid, LLC for the Euclid Corridor Project—
205 W. St. Clair & 4150 East 49th St. (O.679-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Development Block Grant & NEF Administrative Cost funds appropriation - SAS software maintenance - contracts - Executive Information Systems,
LLC (O 597-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Era Systems Corporation - maintain & support noise monitoring software at CHIA (O 502-08) . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew contract no. 67144 - automatic doors - purchase parts to maintain
& repair - various divisions (O 698-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Music Hall & Public Hall - public improvement (O 684-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recycling and disposal of various chemicals & hazardous hazmat (O 680-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Signal and pavement marking equipment - Division of Traffic Engineering - Public Service
Dept. (O 446-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Physio-Control, Inc. for automated external defibrillator - Port Control Dept.
(O 445-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Clean Program - Community Development Block Grant funds - Parks, Recreation and
Properties (O 593-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public improvement - Highland Park Cemetery communication lines - Parks, Recreation and
Properties Dept. (O 358-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public improvement - Phase II of Valleyview Homes - Tremont Pointe - Service Department
(O 349-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wildlife bird systems - Port Control Department (O 444-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 877
. . . . . . . . . 888
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

889
871
901
872

. . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . 887

. . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . 878
. . . . . . . . . 872
. . . . . . . . . 871
. . . . . . . . . 902
. . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . 888

Detroit-Shoreway Community Development Corporation
Capitol Theatre (1400 West 65th St.) - renovation - amending Ord. No. 1420-07 - development
assistance (O 656-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

Dues
Membership dues - payment - various professional organizations (O 587-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Easements
City Bank Investment Co. - public improvement - Rocky River Dr. & Lorain Rd. (corner)—
amend Ord. 2141-05 (O 691-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Steelyard Commons LLC - Service Department (O 275-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Economic Development Department
Amend Contract No. 66986 - Grant agreement with Westside Industrial Retention and Expansion
Network (O 696-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
Capitol Theatre (1400 West 65th St.) - renovation - amending Ord. No. 1420-07 - development
assistance - Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization (O 656-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

Economic Development Department
Grant - with Springco Metal Finishings, Inc. ( Ward 20) (O 412-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Interdept. transfer - Detroit, Trinity, lease to Penstan, LLC (O 700-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Land Reutilization Programs - Industrial Land Bank - amend Sect. 183.021 of the Codified
Ordinances (O 458-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Loan agreements - financial assistance - $ 250,000 - amend Ord. 461-06 (O 697-08) . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878

Encroachments
Coral Company on Shaker Square - Service Department (O 348-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Euclid Corridor Transportation Project
Director of Finance - contract - Doan/Pyramid, LLC - 205 W. St. Clair & 4150 East 49th
St. (O 679-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

914

May 7, 2008

The City Record

51

Finance Department
CedarCrestone, Inc. - contract - to maintain PeopleSoft Financial Management System
(O 678-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contract - Doan/Pyramid, LLC for the Euclid Corridor Project - 205 W. St. Clair & 4150
East 49th St. (O 679-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Membership dues - payment - various professional organizations (O 587-08) . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehab. of Bellaire Rd., ( from W. 117th ST. to W. 105th ST.) - amend Section 12 of Ord.
No. 55-07 (O 496-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicle mileage allowance - amend Section 171.43 of the Codified Ordinances (O 499-08)
Wildlife bird systems - contracts - Port Control Department (O 444-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Flats District
Accepting petitions to create New Flats Community Development Authority - Flats East Banks
(O 650-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Grants
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating Bellaire Rd., (between West 130th St. & West 117th
St.) (O 686-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating Broadway Avenue ( I-77 to the east corporation line)
(O 687-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating East 30th St. (Woodland Ave. to St. Clair
Ave.) (O 688-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Contract No. 66986 - Agreement with Westside Industrial Retention
and Expansion Network (O 696-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change fiscal agent regarding African American Cultural Garden - amend Ord. 15-08—
agreement (O 685-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Economic Development - with Springco Metal Finishings, Inc. ( Ward 20) (O 412-08) . . . . . .
Waterloo Streetscape project - professional services - acquire for right-of-way (O 689-08) . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875

Health Department
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) & CHORE Program - expenses - Community
Development Block Grant funds (O 599-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Housing Rehabilitation Program
Appropriate - CDBG and Federal HOME Program funds - Section 8 Housing Quality Standards
- property inspections - professional consultants (O 596-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Land Reutilization Program
E. 33rd St., - Shun Ting Mo & Catherine Yn Lau (O 707-08) .
E. 33rd St., - Tam Ching Chuen (O 708-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 49th St. & E. 55th St. - Elabed, LLC (O 705-08) . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., - Midtown Cleveland, Inc. (O 701-08). . . . . . . . .
Industrial Land Bank - amend Sect. 183.021 of the Codified
W. 97th St., - Adrian Halcomb (O 706-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

....................
....................
....................
....................
Ordinances (O 458-08)
....................

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

885
885
883
881
902
884

Landmark Commission
Woodland Cemetery (O 296-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Lease by Way of Concession
Solicit proposals from car rental companies (O 699-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878

Leases
Interdept. transfer - Economic Development - Detroit, Trinity, lease to Penstan, LLC
(O 700-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879

Liquor Permits
E. 152nd St., 657 - objection - withdraw - transfer of stock - repealing Res. No. 10-08
( Ward 10) (R 710-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Kenilwork Ave., 1023 - transfer of ownership & location ( Ward 13) (F 712-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Union Ave., 10221 ( 1st. fl. & basement) - stock transfer ( Ward 2) (F 711-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867

915

The City Record

52

May 7, 2008

Marathons
Rite Aid Marathon and 10K, 30th - May 18, 2008 - Cleveland Marathon, Inc. - permit (O 660-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905

Mayor’s Office
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Music Hall
Public Hall - public improvement - contracts (O 684-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Community Development Department - administrative expenses - Community Development Block
Grant & NEF Administrative Cost funds - appropriation - SAS software maintenance contracts - Executive Information Systems, LLC (O 597-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation - agreement - Transportation for Livable
Communities Study - amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1142-07 - Ward 15 & 16 NEF
(O 655-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (NOACA)
Waterloo Streetscape project - grants - professional services - acquire for right-of-way
(O 689-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875

Ohio Municipal League
Membership dues - payment - various professional organizations (O 587-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Ohio Revised Code
Accepting petitions to create New Flats Community Development Authority - Flats East Banks
(O 650-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation
Agreement - Transportation for Livable Communities Study - amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No.
1142-07 - Ward 15 & 16 NEF (O 655-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Change fiscal agent regarding African American Cultural Garden - amend Ord. 15-08 - grant
agreement (O 685-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
Contracts - Cleveland Board of Education - extracurricular programs (O 683-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Music Hall & Public Hall - public improvement - contracts (O 684-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Project Clean Program - Community Development Block Grant funds (O 593-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Public improvement - contracts - Highland Park Cemetery communication lines (O 358-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Permits
Marco and Shelia Periandri - public right-of-way - Justin Avenue S.W. - fence and other
backyard amenities (O 56-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Rite Aid Marathon and 10K, 30th - May 18, 2008 - Cleveland Marathon, Inc. (O 660-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905

Personnel Department
Pre-employment background and criminal checks - professional services - (O 702-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882

Petitions
Accepting petitions to create New Flats Community Development Authority - Flats East Banks
(O 650-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Physio Control Corporation
Contracts - with Physio-Control, Inc. for automated external defibrillator - Port Control
Dept. (O 445-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

916

May 7, 2008

The City Record

53

Plats
Valleyview Homes Hope VI Phase 1 (F 713-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867

Police Division
Authorize police strength - amend Section 135.09 of the Codified Ordinances (O 408-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900

Port Control Department
Contracts - with Physio-Control, Inc. for automated external defibrillator (O 445-08) . . . . . . .
Contracts with Era Systems Corporation - maintain & support noise monitoring software at
CHIA (O 502-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exercise option to renew contract no. 67144 - automatic doors - purchase parts to maintain
& repair - various divisions (O 698-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Solicit proposals from car rental companies - leases by way of concession (O 699-08) . . . . . . .
Wildlife bird systems - contracts (O 444-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 878
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Predatory Lending
Anti-predatory lending & foreclosure prevention assistance - CDBG - Consumer Affairs
(O 704-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882

Professional Services
Annual reports for 2008 & 2009 - Utilities Dept (O 441-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CedarCrestone, Inc. - contract - to maintain PeopleSoft Financial Management System
(O 678-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts with Era Systems Corporation - maintain & support noise monitoring software at
CHIA (O 502-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Rehabilitation Programs - appropriate - CDBG and Federal HOME Program funds—
Section 8 Housing Quality Standards - property inspections professional consultants (O 596-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pre-employment background and criminal checks - Personnel Dept. (O 702-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 882

Professional Services
Develop street lighting call center system - Utilities Dept. (O 443-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Waterloo Streetscape project - grants - professional services - acquire for right-of-way
(O 689-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875

Project Agreements
Interdept. transfer - Economic Development - Detroit, Trinity, lease to Penstan, LLC
(O 700-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 879

Public Hearings (Notices)
Declaring property located at 11850 Lorain Ave. blighted - sell to Westown Community
Development Corp. (O 504-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897

Public Improvements
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating Bellaire Rd., (between West 130th St. & West 117th
St.) (O 686-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating Broadway Avenue ( I-77 to the east corporation line)
(O 687-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating East 30th St. (Woodland Ave. to St. Clair
Ave.) (O 688-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amended Ordinance No. 911-07 - contract - Woodland Ave. & - Kinsman Rd. - Service Dept.
(O 350-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crown Improvement Project - contract - Utilities Department (O 270-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Easement with The City Bank Investment Co. - Rocky River Dr. & Lorain Rd. (corner) - amend
Ord. 2141-05 (O 691-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Music Hall & Public Hall - contracts (O 684-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts - Highland Park Cemetery communication lines - Parks, Recreation and Properties
Dept. (O 358-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts - Phase II of Valleyview Homes - Tremont Pointe - Service Department (O 349-08) . . .
Rehabilitation of Belvoir Boulevard (Euclid Ave. & South Euclid) - amend Ord.
2332-03 (O 690-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

917

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875

The City Record

54

May 7, 2008

Purchases and Supplies Division
To purchase & sell properties - 3503 & 3445 W. 123rd St. & 3747 W. 130th ST., - Westown
Community Development Corp. - Community Development Department (O 359-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Recognition
35th Annual National EMS Week (R 723-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Capps, Edward (R 722-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867

Recusals
Pierce Scott, Council Member Sabra - recusal from voting on Ord. No. 679-08 (F 714-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867

Resolution of Support
Great Lakes - St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact (R 657-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899

Right-of-Way
Marco and Shelia Periandri - permit - Justin Avenue S.W. - fence and other backyard
amenities (O 56-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Waterloo Streetscape project - grants - professional services (O 689-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875

Safety Department
Police Division - authorize police strength - amend Section 135.09 of the Codified
Ordinances (O 408-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900

Senate Bills
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Service Department
3rd Annual Ward 5 Family Festival - May 28, 2008 to June 28, 2008 - Burten, Bell, Carr
Development - banners (O 663-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating Bellaire Rd., (between West 130th St. & West 117th
St.) (O 686-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating Broadway Avenue ( I-77 to the east corporation line)
(O 687-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating East 30th St. (Woodland Ave. to St. Clair
Ave.) (O 688-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amended Ordinance No. 911-07 - public improvement - contract - Woodland Ave. & - Kinsman
Rd. (O 350-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chester Avenue N.E. - vacate a portion (O 693-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coffee Festival - June 17, 2008 - July 16, 2008 - Club Alma Yaucano - banners (O 661-08) . . . . . . . . .
Contracts - signal and pavement marking equipment - Division of Traffic Engineering
(O 446-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 71st ST. - intent to vacate a portion (R 167-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Easement with The City Bank Investment Co. - public improvement - Rocky River Dr. & Lorain
Rd. (corner) - amend Ord. 2141-05 (O 691-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Encroachment - Coral Company on Shaker Square (O 348-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grant easement - Steelyard Commons LLC (O 275-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Justin Avenue S.W. - vacate a portion (O 695-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marco and Shelia Periandri - permit - public right-of-way - Justin Avenue S.W. - fence
and other backyard amenities (O 56-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public improvement - contracts - Phase II of Valleyview Homes - Tremont Pointe (O 349-08) . . . .
Rehab. of Bellaire Rd., ( from W. 117th ST. to W. 105th ST.) - amend Section 12 of Ord.
No. 55-07 (O 496-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehabilitation of Belvoir Boulevard (Euclid Ave. & South Euclid) - amend Ord.
2332-03 (O 690-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Marathon and 10K, 30th - May 18, 2008 - Cleveland Marathon, Inc. - permit (O 660-08). . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

875
888
888
877

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905

Service Department
Waterloo Streetscape project - grants - professional services - acquire for right-of-way
(O 689-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
West 27th Pl. ( Oriole Court) - vacate a portion (O 694-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
West 7th St. - vacate a portion (O 692-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876

918

May 7, 2008

The City Record

55

State of Ohio
Waterloo Streetscape project - grants - professional services - acquire for right-of-way
(O 689-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875

Street Vacation
Chester Avenue N.E. - vacate a portion (O 693-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
E. 71st ST. - intent to vacate a portion (R 167-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Justin Avenue S.W. - vacate a portion (O 695-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
West 27th Pl. ( Oriole Court) - vacate a portion (O 694-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
West 7th St. - vacate a portion (O 692-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876

Tabled Legislation
Utility shut-off in abandoned structures - new Sec. 367.16 (O 1112-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871-T

Traffic Engineering & Parking Division
Contracts - signal and pavement marking equipment - Division of Traffic Engineering
- Public Service Dept. (O 446-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 902

Utilities Department
Annual reports for 2008 & 2009 - professional services (O 441-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
CEI utility poles removal - contracts (O 442-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company - Street lighting Rate (O 682-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 872
Cleveland Public Power energy adjustment charge - amend 523.21 - amend Ord. 2068-05
(O 681-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Contract - recycling and disposal of various chemicals & hazardous hazmat (O 680-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871
Crown Improvement Project - public improvement - contract (O 270-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Professional Services - develop street lighting call center system (O 443-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901

Vacant Structures
Utility shut-off in abandoned structures - new Sec. 367.16 (O.1112-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871-T
Utility shut-off in vacant and unsafe structures - new Section 3103.091 —
substitute for Ord. No. 1112-07 (O.1112-A-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868

Vehicles
Vehicle mileage allowance - amend Section 171.43 of the Codified Ordinances (O 499-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

Ward 01
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900

Ward 01
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Ward 02
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating Broadway Avenue ( I-77 to the east corporation line)
(O 687-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Union Ave., 10221 ( 1st. fl. & basement) - stock transfer - liquor permit (F 711-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Venable, Jr., Andrew - congratulation (R 721-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867

Ward 03
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

919

The City Record

56

May 7, 2008

Ward 04
Chamberlain, Christine - commemoration (R 724-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 868
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Ward 05
3rd Annual Ward 5 Family Festival - May 28, 2008 to June 28, 2008 - Burten, Bell, Carr
Development - banners (O 663-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating Broadway Avenue ( I-77 to the east corporation line)
(O 687-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating East 30th St. (Woodland Ave. to St. Clair
Ave.) (O 688-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 49th St. & E. 55th St. - Land Reutilization Program - Elabed, LLC (O 705-08) . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 71st ST. - intent to vacate a portion (R 167-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave., - Land Reutilization Program - Midtown Cleveland, Inc. (O 701-08). . . . . . . . . . .
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

874
883
891
881
900

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Ward 06
E. 100th & E. 101st ST., Cedar Ave. (south side) - change the use district - zoning
(O 362-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Ave. & E. 117th ST., ( southwest corner) - Mayfield Rd. & E. 117th ST., ( northeast
corner) - change the use, area and height districts - zoning (O 361-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gee, Ruby - congratulation (R 720-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Marathon and 10K, 30th - May 18, 2008 - Cleveland Marathon, Inc. - permit (O 660-08).

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905

Ward 06
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Ward 07
Chester Avenue N.E. - vacate a portion (O 693-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Marathon and 10K, 30th - May 18, 2008 - Cleveland Marathon, Inc. - permit (O 660-08).
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Winbush, Ronald - condolence (R 717-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867

Ward 08
Capps, Edward - recognition (R 722-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change fiscal agent regarding African American Cultural Garden - amend Ord. 15-08 - grant
agreement (O 685-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Great Lakes - St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact (R 657-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Marathon and 10K, 30th - May 18, 2008 - Cleveland Marathon, Inc. - permit (O 660-08).
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

873
899
900
905

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Ward 09
Euclid Ave. & E. 117th ST., ( southwest corner) - Mayfield Rd. & E. 117th ST., ( northeast
corner)- change the use, area and height districts - zoning (O 361-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Marathon and 10K, 30th - May 18, 2008 - Cleveland Marathon, Inc. - permit (O 660-08).
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Venable, Jr., Andrew - congratulation (R 721-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867

Ward 10
E. 152nd St., 657 - objection - withdraw - transfer of stock - repealing Res. No. 10-08
- liquor permit (R 710-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Rehabilitation of Belvoir Boulevard (Euclid Ave. & South Euclid) - amend Ord.
2332-03 (O 690-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875

920

May 7, 2008

The City Record

57

Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Ward 11
Great Lakes - St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact (R 657-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Ward 11
Waterloo Streetscape project - grants - professional services - acquire for right-of-way
(O 689-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875

Ward 12
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating Broadway Avenue ( I-77 to the east corporation line)
(O 687-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 874
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Ward 13
Accepting petitions to create New Flats Community Development Authority - Flats East Banks
(O 650-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Awyers, Stephanie Taylor - condolence (R 718-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Change the Use District - E. 55th St. & Saint Clair Ave., (southeast corner) - Residence
Office District (O 703-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 33rd St. (west side) - north of Perkins Ave. - change the zoning - Residence Industry
District (O 298-07) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 33rd St., - Land Reutilization Program - Shun Ting Mo & Catherine Yn Lau (O 707-08) . . . . . . . .
E. 33rd St., - Land Reutilization Program - Tam Ching Chuen (O 708-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 71st ST. - intent to vacate a portion (R 167-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kenilwork Ave., 1023 - transfer of ownership & location - liquor permit ( Ward 13) (F 712-08) . . .
Rite Aid Marathon and 10K, 30th - May 18, 2008 - Cleveland Marathon, Inc. - permit (O 660-08). . . .
Schell, S.J., Rev. Joseph O. - condolence (R 716-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 7th St. - vacate a portion (O 692-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

890
885
885
891
900
867
905
867

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 876

Ward 14
35th Annual National EMS Week - recognition (R 723-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coffee Festival - June 17, 2008 - July 16, 2008 - Club Alma Yaucano - banners (O 661-08) . . . . .
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
RiteAid Marathon and 10K, 30th - May 18, 2008 - Cleveland Marathon, Inc. - permit (O 660-08)
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valleyview Homes Hope VI Phase 1 - plats (F 713-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 27th Pl. ( Oriole Court) - vacate a portion (O 694-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

867
905
900
905

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877

Ward 15
Great Lakes - St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact (R 657-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation - agreement - Transportation for Livable
Communities Study - amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1142-07 - Ward 15 & 16 NEF
(O 655-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

Ward 15
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Ward 16
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation - agreement - Transportation for Livable
Communities Study - amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No. 1142-07 - Ward 15 & 16 NEF
(O 655-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 904

921

The City Record

58

May 7, 2008

Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Ward 17
Awyers, Stephanie Taylor - condolence (R 718-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capitol Theatre (1400 West 65th St.) - renovation - amending Ord. No. 1420-07 - development
assistance - Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization (O 656-08) . . . . . . .
Great Lakes - St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact (R 657-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Homzy, Richard - congratulation (R 719-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Marathon and 10K, 30th - May 18, 2008 - Cleveland Marathon, Inc. - permit (O 660-08).
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

904
899
867
900
905

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Ward 18
Great Lakes - St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact (R 657-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rite Aid Marathon and 10K, 30th - May 18, 2008 - Cleveland Marathon, Inc. - permit (O 660-08).
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 97th St., - Land Reutilization Program - Adrian Halcomb (O 706-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 905
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884

Ward 19
Accept Issue 1 grant - rehabilitating Bellaire Rd., (between West 130th St. & West 117th
St.) (O 686-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Declaring property located at 11850 Lorain Ave. blighted - sell to Westown Community
Development Corp. (O 504-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Great Lakes - St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact (R 657-08) . . . . . . . . . .
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rehab. of Bellaire Rd., ( from W. 117th ST. to W. 105th ST.) - amend Section 12 of Ord.
No. 55-07 (O 496-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
To purchase & sell properties - 3503 & 3445 W. 123rd St. & 3747 W. 130th ST., - Westown
Community Development Corp. - Community Development Department (O 359-08) . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 873
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Ward 19
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Ward 20
Economic Development - grant - with Springco Metal Finishings, Inc. (O 412-08) . . . . .
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Justin Avenue S.W. - vacate a portion (O 695-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marco and Shelia Periandri - permit - public right-of-way - Justin Avenue S.W. - fence
and other backyard amenities (O 56-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Monroe, Joseph - condolence (R 715-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 877
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 867
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Ward 21
Easement with The City Bank Investment Co. - public improvement - Rocky River Dr. & Lorain
Rd. (corner) - amend Ord. 2141-05 (O 691-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 875
Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland - headquarters (R 659-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Urging the General Assembly to amend Sub. S.B. 17 - regulation of scrap metal
dealers (R 709-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Water Division
Contract - recycling and disposal of various chemicals & hazardous hazmat (O 680-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871

Water Pollution Control Division
Contract - recycling and disposal of various chemicals & hazardous hazmat (O 680-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 871

Woodland Cemetery
Woodland Cemetery - Landmark Commission (O 296-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

922

May 7, 2008

The City Record

59

Zoning
Change the Use District - E. 55th St. & Saint Clair Ave., (southeast corner) - Residence
Office District (O 703-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 100th & E. 101st ST., Cedar Ave. (south side) - change the use district (O 362-08) . . . . . .
E. 33rd St. (west side) - north of Perkins Ave. - Residence Industry District (O 298-07) . . .
Euclid Ave. & E. 117th ST., ( southwest corner) - Mayfield Rd. & E. 117th ST., ( northeast
corner)- change the use, area and height districts (O 361-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

923

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890

