The City Record
Official Publication of the Council of the City of Cleveland

September the Tenth, Two Thousand and Eight

Frank G. Jackson
Mayor

The City Record is available online at
www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

Martin J. Sweeney
President of Council

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Nina Turner
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Phyllis E. Cleveland
Mamie J. Mitchell
Stephanie Howse
Sabra Pierce Scott
Kevin Conwell
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Anthony Brancatelli
Joe Cimperman
Joseph Santiago
Brian J. Cummins
Kevin J. Kelley
Matthew Zone
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Martin J. Keane

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notice
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
28
28
31
31
32
34
34
34
35
42
42

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL – LEGISLATIVE
President of Council – Martin J. Sweeney
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Residence
Nina Turner..................................................16204 Sunny Glen Avenue
44128
Robert J. White .................................................9703 Cardwell Avenue
44105
Zachary Reed .....................................................3734 East 149th Street
44120
Kenneth L. Johnson...............................................2948 Hampton Road
44120
Phyllis E. Cleveland .............................................2369 East 36th Street
44105
Mamie J. Mitchell.................................12701 Shaker Boulevard, #712
44120
Stephanie Howse..................................................1804 East 93rd Street
44106
Sabra Pierce Scott.................................................1136 East 98th Street
44108
Kevin Conwell ..................................................10647 Ashbury Avenue
44106
Roosevelt Coats ....................................................1775 Cliffview Road
44112
Michael D. Polensek..............................................17855 Brian Avenue
44119
Anthony Brancatelli..................................................6924 Ottawa Road
44105
Joe Cimperman....................................................3053 West 12th Street
44113
Joseph Santiago ...................................................3169 West 14th Street
44109
Brian J. Cummins ............................................3104 Mapledale Avenue
44109
Kevin J. Kelley ..............................................6608 Woodhaven Avenue
44144
Matthew Zone .....................................................1228 West 69th Street
44102
Jay Westbrook ...................................................1278 West 103rd Street
44102
Dona Brady ..........................................................1272 West Boulevard
44102
Martin J. Sweeney.............................................3632 West 133rd Street
44111
Martin J. Keane......................................................15907 Colletta Lane
44111
City Clerk, Clerk of Council – Patricia J. Britt, 216 City Hall, 664–2840
First Assistant Clerk — Sandra Franklin
MAYOR – Frank G. Jackson
Ken Silliman, Secretary to the Mayor, Chief of Staff
Darnell Brown, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief Operating Officer
Valarie J. McCall, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Government Affairs
Chris Warren, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Regional Development
Monyka S. Price, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Education
Maureen Harper, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Chief of Communications
Andrea V. Taylor, Executive Assistant to the Mayor, Press Secretary
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Robert J. Triozzi, Director, Richard F. Horvath, Chief Corporate Counsel,
Thomas J. Kaiser, Chief Trial Counsel, Barbara A. Langhenry, Chief Counsel, Rm. 106
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Sharon Dumas, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS: Accounts – Richard W. Sensenbrenner, Commissioner, Room 19
Assessments and Licenses – Dedrick Stephens, Commissioner, Room 122
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Financial Reporting and Control – James Gentile, Controller, Room 18
Information Technology and Services – Douglas Divish, Commissioner, 205 W. St. Clair
Avenue
Purchases and Supplies – James E. Hardy, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Michael Hewitt, Commissioner, 1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 205 W. St. Clair Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Barry A. Withers, Interim Director, 1201 Lakeside Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Cleveland Public Power – Ivan Henderson, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – ______________, Acting Chief
Utilities Fiscal Control – Dennis Nichols, Commissioner
Water – John Christopher Nielson, Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Ollie Shaw, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Ricky D. Smith, Director
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahhur, Commissioner
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Fred Szabo, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Jomarie Wasik, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS: Architecture – Kurt Wiebusch, Commissioner, Room 517
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner, Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner, Harvard Yards
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Traffic Engineering – Robert Mavec, Commissioner, 4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner, 5600 Carnegie Avenue
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Matt Carroll, Director, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DIVISIONS: Air Quality – Richard L. Nemeth, Commissioner
Environment – Willie Bess, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
Health – Anjou Parekh, Commissioner, Mural Building, 1925 St. Clair Ave.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Martin Flask, Director, Room 230
DIVISIONS: Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 West 7th Street
Correction – Robert Taskey, Commissioner, Cleveland House of Corrections, 4041 Northfield Rd.
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner, 1708 South Pointe Drive
Fire – Paul A. Stubbs, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Police – Michael C. McGrath, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg., 1300 Ontario Street
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Michael Cox, Director
Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 East 6th Street
DIVISIONS: Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Parking Facilities – Leigh Stevens, Commissioner
Public Auditorium, East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner
Public Auditorium – East 6th Street and Lakeside Avenue
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th Street & Harvard
Recreation – Kim Johnson, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501 N. Marginal Road
Burke Lakefront Airport

DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Daryl Rush, Director, 3rd Floor, City Hall
DIVISIONS: Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner
Neighborhood Development – Joseph A. Sidoti, Commissioner
DEPT. OF BUILDING AND HOUSING – Edward W. Rybka, Director, Room 500
DIVISIONS: Code Enforcement – Tyrone L. Johnson, Commissioner
Construction Permitting – Timothy R. Wolosz, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PERSONNELAND HUMAN RESOURCES – Trudy Hutchinson, Director, Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Tracey A. Nichols, Director, Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Jane Fumich, Director, Room 122
DEPT. OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS – Angel Guzman, Director
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Blaine Griffin, Director; Mayor Frank G.
Jackson, Chairman Ex-Officio; Rev. Charles Lucas, Jr., Vice-Chairman; Councilman
Kevin Conwell, Councilman Brian J. Cummins, Councilman Joe Santiago, Councilman
Matthew Zone, City Council Representatives; Charles L. Patton, Jr., Paula Castleberry,
Emmett Saunders, John Banno, Kathryn M. Hall, Evangeline Hardaway, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan, Rev. Jesse Harris, Magda Gomez, Fred J. Livingstone, Margot James
Copeland.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION – Room 119, Reynaldo Galindo, President; Rev. Earl
Preston, Vice President; Lucille Ambroz, Secretary; Members: Diane M. Downing,
Michael L. Nelson.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Frank G. Jackson, President; Council President Martin
J. Sweeney; Betsy Hruby, Asst. Sec’y.; Sharon Dumas, Director.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol A. Johnson, Chairman; Members; John
Myers, Ozell Dobbins, Joan Shaver Washington, Tim Donovan, _____________, Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.
Denk, Chairman; ____________, Arthur Saunders, Alternate Members – D. Cox, P.
Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi, President;
Finance Director Sharon Dumas, Secretary; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Jomarie Wasik, Law Director Robert
J. Triozzi; Councilman ______________.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Utilities
Director _______________; Council President Martin J. Sweeney.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Robert N. Brown, Director; Anthony J.
Coyne, Chairman; David H. Bowen, Lillian Kuri, Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean
Pinkney, Norman Krumholz, Council Member Joe Cimperman.
FAIR CAMPAIGN FINANCE COMMISSION – Chris Warren, C. Ellen Connally, Hillary S.
Taylor.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT WAGE BOARD – Room 210 – Gerald Meyer, Chair; Angela
Caldwell, Vice Chair; Patrick Gallagher, Kathryn Jackson, Draydean McCaleb, Council
Member ____________, Ed Romero.
FAIR HOUSING BOARD – Charles See, Chair; _________, Vice Chair; Daniel Conway, Doris
Honsa, Lisa Camacho.
HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD – Room 310 – Keith Brown, Terri Hamilton Brown,Vickie
Eaton-Johnson, Mike Foley, Eric Hodderson, Janet Loehr, Mark McDermott, Marcia Nolan,
David Perkowski, Joan Shaver Washington, Keith Sutton.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones, Chairman;
Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Robert J. Triozzi; Chairman; Finance
Director Sharon Dumas; Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Councilman Kevin
Kelley; Councilman Nina Turner.
POLICE REVIEW BOARD – Thomas Jones, Board Chair Person; Vernon Collier, Vermel
Whalen, Nancy Cronin, Elvin Vauss.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Laura M. Bala, Chair; Jennifer
Coleman, Vice Chair; Robert N. Brown, Council Member Joe Cimperman, Thomas
Coffey, Robert Jackimowicz; Ari Maron, William Mason, Michael Rastatter, Jr., John
Torres, N. Kurt Wiebusch, Robert Keiser, Secretary.
AUDIT COMMITTEE – Robert Rawson, Chairman; Yvette Ittu, Debra Janik, Bracy Lewis,
Don Neebes, Council President Martin J. Sweeney; Law Director Robert J. Triozzi.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT
JUSTICE CENTER – 1200 ONTARIO STREET
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
14B
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge Marilyn B. Cassidy
12A
Judge Emanuella Groves
13A
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Anita Laster Mays
14C
Judge Lauren C. Moore
14A
Judge Charles Patton, Jr.
12B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Michael John Ryan
12C
Judge Angela R. Stokes
15C
Judge Pauline H. Tarver
13C
Judge Joseph J. Zone
14D
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Russell R. Brown III – Court Administrator, Paul J. Mizerak –
Bailiff; Jerome M. Krakowski – Chief Probation Officer, Gregory F. Clifford – Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2008

Vol. 95

No. 4944

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2008
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

MOTION

Published weekly by the City Clerk,

www.clevelandcitycouncil.org

10:00 A.M. — Aviation & Transportation Committee: Kelley, Chair;
Keane,
Vice
Chair;
Brancatelli,
Cleveland, Howse, Mitchell, Westbrook.
10:00 A.M. — Public Safety Committee: Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice
Chair;
Coats,
Cummins,
Kelley,
Mitchell, Polensek, Santiago, Turner.

Address all communications to

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

On the motion of Council Member
Brady, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal corrected for the
City Council meeting of August 18,
2008, City Record Volume 95, pages
1703 and 1704, to show that the Oath
of Office of the Member of City
Council for Ward 7 is contained in
File No. 1322-08, not File No. 1316-08,
and that the Condolence Resolution
for Fannie M. Lewis is Resolution
No. 1323-08, not Resolution No. 131708. Seconded by Council Member
Johnson.

Clerk of Council under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
The City Record is available
online at

PATRICIA J. BRITT
City Clerk, Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
2006-2009
MONDAY—Alternating
9:30 A.M. — Public Parks, Property & Recreation Committee: Johnson, Chair; White, Vice Chair; Brancatelli, Cummins, Kelley, Polensek,
Turner.
9:30 A.M. — Health & Human
Services
Committee:
Brancatelli,
Chair; Cleveland, Vice Chair; Conwell, Kelley, Mitchell, Reed, Santiago.
11:00 A.M. — Public Service Committee: Brady, Chair; Turner, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Johnson,
Polensek,
Reed,
Santiago,
White.
11:00 A.M. — Legislation Committee: Cleveland, Chair; Keane, Vice
Chair; Cimperman, Howse, Pierce
Scott, Reed, White.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M. — Finance Committee:
Sweeney, Chair; Cimperman, Vice
Chair; Brady, Brancatelli, Coats,
Conwell, Pierce Scott, Turner, Westbrook, White, Zone.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M. — Community and Economic Development Committee: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Brady, Cimperman, Cummins, Coats,
Howse, Westbrook. Zone.
1:30 P.M. — Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
Turner, Chair; Santiago, Vice Chair;
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Johnson,
Mitchell.

1:30 P.M. — Public Utilities Committee: Zone, Chair; Reed, Vice
Chair; Cleveland, Cummins, Keane,
Kelley, Polensek, Santiago, Westbrook.
1:30 P.M. — City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chair, Westbrook, Vice Chair, Conwell, Howse,
Keane, Reed, Zone.
The following Committees are
subject to the Call of the Chair:
Rules Committee: Sweeney, Chair;
Cleveland,
Kelley,
Pierce
Scott,
Polensek.
Personnel and Operations Committee:
Westbrook,
Chair;
Kelley,
Mitchell,
Pierce
Scott,
Santiago,
Sweeney, White.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Coats, Chair; Pierce Scott, Kelley,
Sweeney, Westbrook.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Monday, September 8, 2008
The meeting of the Council was
called to order, The President, Martin J. Sweeney, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Brancatelli, Cimperman, Cleveland,
Coats, Conwell, Cummins, Howse,
Johnson, Keane, Kelley, Mitchell,
Polensek, Reed, Santiago, Sweeney,
Turner, Westbrook, White and Zone.
Also present were Ken Silliman,
Chief of Staff; Monyka S. Price,
Chief of Education; Maureen Harper,
Chief of Communications; Andrea V.
Taylor, Press Secretary; and Directors
Triozzi, Dumas, Smith, Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush, Rybka, Hutchinson, Fumich, Brown, and Theresa
Stevenson, Legislative Liaison.
Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2926-76
prayer
was
offered
by
Pastor
Brayant Taylor of Westside Seventh
Day Adventist Church, located at
13812 Bellaire Road in Ward 20.
Pledge of Allegiance.

1769

FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1376-08.
Re: # 6061800 — D5 Transfer of
Ownership Application — Tyson
Mitchell, 9102 Aetna Road. (Ward 2).
Received.
File No. 1377-08.
Re: # 3675668 — C1, C2 Transfer
of Ownership Application — HAVI
2 LLC, D.B.A. Big Bite, 3705 East
116th Street. (Ward 2). Received.
File No. 1378-08.
Re: # 3200673 — C2, C2X Transfer
of Ownership Application — Girad
Inc., d.b.a. Chillies, 4096-98 East
131st Street. (Ward 2). Received.
File No. 1379-08.
Re: # 00239900015 — C1 Transfer
of Location Application — Abeco
Ayad, Inc., 2167 East 55th Street.
(Ward 5). Received.
File No. 1380-08.
Re: # 2714680 — C1 Transfer of
Ownership Application — 55 Naser,
Inc., d.b.a. East 55th Street Shell,
2625 East 55th Street. (Ward 5). Received.
File No. 1381-08.
Re: # 0173935 — C2, C2X Transfer
of Ownership Application — Amira
Petroleum, Inc., d.b.a. Tayeh, 1930
East 79th Street. (Ward 5). Received.
File No. 1382-08.
Re: # 8736002 — D1, D2 Transfer
of Ownership Application — Sweet
Mosaic, Inc., d.b.a. Vine and Bean
Café, 12706 Larchmere Boulevard.
(Ward 6). Received.
File No. 1383-08.
Re: # 5511200 — D5, D6 Transfer
of Ownership Application — Maple
Lances, LLC, d.b.a. Maple Lanes
Bowling Alley, 6918 St. Clair Avenue, 1st Floor and Basement. (Ward
7). Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 1384-08.
Re: # 5805920 — C1, C2 Transfer
of Ownership Application — Mega
Food Plus, Inc., d.b.a. Chillies, 12200
St. Clair Avenue. (Ward 9). Received.
File No. 1385-08.
Re: # 88361720002 — D5, D6 Transfer of Location Application — Telecom Acquisition Corp UI, Inc., 1st
Floor and Patio 1301 Old River
Road. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1386-08.
Re: # 8362890 — D5 Transfer of
Location Application — Carole Solomon, d.b.a. Carols Cleveland Bar and
Grille, 602 St. Clair Avenue. (Ward
13). Received.
File No. 1387-08.
Re: # 0803485 — D1, D2, D3, D3A
Transfer of Ownership Application
— Bolp Corp., 1st Floor, Basement
and Patio, 2391-99 West 11th Street.
(Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1388-08.
Re: # 1049062 — D2, D2X, D3
Transfer of Location Application —
Brunos Ristorante and Catering,
LLC, d.b.a. Brunos Ristorante, 2644
West 41st Street. (Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1389-08.
Re: # 2714626 — D1, D2, D3, D3A,
D6 Transfer of Ownership Application — 58 Group, LLC, d.b.a. Happy
Dog, 1st Floor and Basement, 5801
Detroit Avenue. (Ward 17). Received.
File No. 1390-08.
Re: # 7361046 — C1 New Application — Rocky River Supermarket,
LLC, 4142 Rocky River Drive. (Ward
14). Received.
File No. 1391-08.
Re: # 717880220005 — C1 New Application — Raja International, Inc.,
d.b.a. EZ Mart Food Store, 4163
Rocky River Drive. (Ward 14). Received.
STATEMENT OF FINAL
ACCEPTANCE
File No. 1392-08.
From the Department of Public
Utilities, Division of Water, Contract
No. 66747, with Utilicon Corporation
for Cleaning and Lining 2007-Area
A. Received.
File No. 1393-08.
From the Department of Public
Utilities, Division of Water, Contract
No. 66748, with Terrace Construction
for Cleaning and Lining 2007-Area
B. Received.

CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:
Res. No. 1323-06 — Councilwoman
Fannie M. Lewis.
Res. No. 1394-08—Congresswoman
Stephanie Tubbs Jones.
Res. No. 1395-08—Deacon Henry L.
Wooten.
Res. No. 1396-08—Tammy G. Paige
Cobbins.
Res. No. 1397-08—L. Rebecca Eddie.
Res. No. 1398-08 — Dr. Miles A.
Coburn.
Res. No. 1399-08—Arlene Mills.
Res. No. 1400-08—Maurice Reedus.
Res. No. 1401-08 — Marcella L.
Houston.
Res. No. 1402-08—Green Cunningham.
Res. No. 1403-08 — Michell Renee
Rogers.
Res. No. 1404-08—Marion Gray.
Res. No. 1405-08—Kevin A. Karn.
Res. No. 1406-08—Del Martin.
Res. No. 1407-08 — Carlos “Carly”
Vega.
Res. No. 1408-08—Alice Walk.
Res. No. 1409-08—Joy Crandfield.
CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1410-08—Otis Evan Root.
Res. No. 1411-08 — Circolo ItaloAmericano Corenese.
Res. No. 1412-08 — Pastor Walter
Marlon Humphrey.
Res. No. 1413-08—Basheer Jones.
Res. No. 1414-08 — Rev. Dr. R.
Mark Giuliano.
Res. No. 1415-08 — Eliza Bryant
Village – 41st Annual Luncheon.
Res. No. 1416-08—Ora Jones.
Res. No. 1417-08—Glenville Seventh
Day Adventist Church.
Res. No. 1418-08 — Roye L. Kidd
(“Roye Kidd Field” Dedication).
RECOGNITION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1419-08—Helen Simon.
Res. No. 1420-08—4th Annual Worship & Praise Deaf Festival.
Res. No. 1421-08 — National Hispanic Heritage Month.
Res. No. 1422-08—Cleveland Culinary Celebration Week/The Fabulous Food Show.
Res. No. 1423-08 — Community
Shares Campaign 2008 Kickoff.
Res. No. 1424-08—Zeta Phi Beta
Sorority, Inc., Gamma Delta Zeta
Chapter.

September 10, 2008
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1324-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to
enter into one or more contracts
with Mary Taylor, Ohio State Auditor, for professional services necessary to perform an assessment
and to express the opinion of the
City regarding the 2008 financial
statements, and to complete two
statements of Auditing Standards
for the Divisions of Water and
Taxation;
and
authorizing
the
Director of Finance to enter into
one or more contracts with Julian
Grube, Inc. for professional services necessary to prepare financial statements and to provide
accounting and auditing training.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Mary
Taylor, Ohio State Auditor, for professional services necessary to complete an independent assessment
and to express the opinion of the
City whether the 2008 financial
statements fairly present the financial position of the City; and to
authorize the auditor to complete
two statements on Auditing Standards for the Divisions of Water and
Taxation.
Section 2. That the Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
one or more contracts with Julian
Grube, Inc. for professional services
necessary to prepare financial statements and to provide accounting
and
auditing
training,
for
the
Department of Finance.
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the contracts authorized in this
ordinance shall not exceed $350,000
and shall be paid from funds appropriated for this purpose in budget
year 2009, Request No. 154436.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.

Ord. No. 1325-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to make additional appropriations of Three Million Six Hundred Thousand Dollars
($3,600,000) of Internal Service Funds, Two Million Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($2,300,000) of the Enterprise Funds, and Ninety Two Million Three Hundred Thirty Eight Thousand Eight Hundred Eleven ($92,338,811)
of Debt Service Funds.
Whereas, there remains an unappropriated balance in the various funds, the sum of Ninety Eight Million Two
Hundred Thirty Eight Thousand Dollars Eight Hundred Eleven Dollars ($98,238,811) which is available for
additional appropriation; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:

1770

The City Record

September 10, 2008

5

Section 1. That there is hereby appropriated the additional revenue as set forth in the Amended Official
Certificate of Estimated Resources previously unappropriated as follows:
INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS
ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEBT SERVICE FUND

$

3,600,000
2,300,000
92,338,811
———————
$
98,238,811

TOTAL ALL FUNDS
INTERNAL SERVICE FUND
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
II.
Other Expenses

$
$

3,600,000

3,600,000

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE

$
3,600,000
––——————
$
3,600,000
––——————
––——————

TOTAL INTERNAL SERVICE FUNDS

ENTERPRISE FUNDS
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION AND PROPERTIES
Division of Convention Center and
Stadium - Stadium
II.
Other Expenses

$

$

2,300,000

$

2,300,000

2,300,000

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PARKS,
RECREATION AND PROPERTIES

––——————
$
2,300,000
––——————
––——————

TOTAL ENTERPRISE FUNDS

DEBT SERVICE FUND
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Sinking Fund Commission
III.
Debt Service

$

92,338,811

$ 92,338,811

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE

$
92,338,811
––——————
$
92,338,811
––——————
––——————

TOTAL DEBT SERVICE FUNDS

Section 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force at the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance, Law; Committee on Finance.

Ord. No. 1326-08.
By Council Members Zone and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the issuance and sale of Water
Revenue Bonds of the City to refund
outstanding Water Revenue Bonds;
authorizing hedge agreements, supplemental
indentures
and
other
agreements related to Water Revenue Bonds; and authorizing and
approving related matters.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, a municipal corporation and
political subdivision of the State of
Ohio, is authorized under Article
XVIII of the Constitution of the
State and the Charter of the City,
among other things: (a) to own and
operate the public utility referred to

as the Waterworks System; (b) to
make, from time to time, improvements to the Waterworks System;
(c) to borrow money for the purpose
of paying costs of those improvements and refunding outstanding
bonds issued for that purpose; and
(d)
to
issue
additional
bonds
secured by a pledge of and lien on
the Net Revenues of the Waterworks System on a parity with
Water Revenue Bonds outstanding
under the Indenture identified in
Section 1; and
Whereas, this Council has determined to authorize the issuance by
the City of the Refunding Bonds as
Additional Water Revenue Bonds
under the Indenture in order to
refund certain Outstanding Revenue

1771

Bonds to obtain debt service savings, to stabilize interest rates or to
minimize risks of increased interest
expense on Outstanding Revenue
Bonds that bear interest at variable
rates, all as defined and provided in
this Ordinance; and
Whereas, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department and providing for the immediate preservation
of public peace, property, health or
safety, in that authorizing the issuance and sale of the Refunding
Bonds
and
authorizing
related
agreements is necessary to enable
the City to respond to market conditions on a timely basis to obtain
debt service savings or to stabilize

6
interest rates or minimize risks of
increased interest expense, for the
benefit of the Waterworks System;
now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions.
In addition to the words and terms
defined in the Indenture, the following words and terms shall have the
following meanings, unless the context or use clearly indicates another
or different meaning or intent:
“Bonds” or “Water Revenue Bonds”
means all Bonds issued and outstanding under the Indenture.
“Bond Purchase Agreement” means,
as to each Series of Refunding Bonds,
the purchase agreement between the
City and the Original Purchasers
authorized by Section 3 with respect
to that Series.
“Certificate of Award” means, as
to each Series of Refunding Bonds,
the certificate providing for the
determination of the final terms of
the Refunding Bonds of that Series,
consistent with the requirements of
this Ordinance, including, without
limitation, Section 3.
“Continuing
Disclosure
Agreement” means, as to each Series of
Refunding Bonds, any continuing
disclosure agreement authorized by
Section 12.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
an insurance policy, surety, letter of
credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other credit enhancement,
support or liquidity facility used to
enhance or provide for the security
or liquidity of Refunding Bonds of
any Series, or any Hedge Agreements.
“Escrow Agreement” means one or
more agreements between the City
and the Trustee, in its capacity as
Escrow Agent, authorized by Section
6.
“Escrow Fund” means the fund,
including the account or accounts
therein, required to be maintained
with the Trustee, in its capacity as
Escrow
Agent
pursuant
to
an
Escrow Agreement.
“Financial Advisor” means any
financial advisory firm or firms
retained by the Director of Finance
of the City, from time to time, pursuant to Section 15.
“Hedge Agreement” means any
agreement defined as such in Section 9.
“Indenture” means the Original
Indenture as previously supplemented and amended and as further supplemented and amended by Supplemental Indentures as provided in
this Ordinance for the Refunding
Bonds.
“Original Indenture” means the
Amended and Restated Indenture,
effective October 5, 2001, between
the City and U.S. Bank National
Association, as successor trustee,
delivered under authority of Ordinance No. 2011-95 passed by the
Council of the City on April 1, 1996
and with the consent of the owners
of 66-2/3% of the applicable Outstanding Revenue Bonds under the
Indenture of Mortgage dated as of
November 1, 1977.
“Original Purchasers” means, with
respect to each Series of Refunding
Bonds, the financial institutions

The City Record
identified
in
the
Certificate
of
Award.
“Outstanding
Revenue
Bonds”
means Water Revenue Bonds of the
City issued and outstanding, from
time to time, under the Indenture
and consisting on the date of introduction of this Ordinance of the following: Series G (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$107,760,000), Series H (currently
outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$7,990,000), Series I (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$10,535,000), Series J (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$53,385,000), Series K (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$61,605,000), Series L (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$90,000,000), Series M (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$172,335,000), Series N (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$64,220,000), Series O (currently outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$143,570,000, and Series P (currently
outstanding
in
the
amount
of
$135,410,000).
“Refunded Bonds” means, as to
each Series of Refunding Bonds, the
Outstanding Revenue Bonds designated in the Certificate of Award as
the Water Revenue Bonds to be
refunded with proceeds of that
Series of Refunding Bonds.
“Refunding
Bonds”
means
the
Bonds authorized by this Ordinance
to be issued in one or more Series
as additional Water Revenue Bonds
under the Indenture for the purpose
of refunding one or more Series of
Outstanding Revenue Bonds, or designated maturities thereof.
“Supplemental Indenture” means,
as to each Series of Refunding
Bonds, the Supplemental Indenture
between the City and the Trustee
securing that Series of Refunding
Bonds as authorized under Section 6.
Section 2. Authorization of the
Refunding Bonds.
This Council finds and determines
it is necessary and proper and in the
best interest of the City to issue the
Refunding Bonds in one or more
Series for the purpose of refunding
(i) one or more Series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds, or designated
portions thereof, to obtain aggregate net present value debt service
savings of not less than three percent (3%), or (ii) one or more Series
of Outstanding Revenue Bonds, or
designated portions thereof, that are
short-term or variable-rate obligations and that the Director of
Finance has determined, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, are subjecting the City to
undesirably high rates of interest or
undesirable fluctuations in rates of
interest that can economically be
avoided or mitigated through refunding. The principal amount of
each Series of Refunding Bonds is
to be the amount set forth in the
Certificate of Award authorized in
Section 3 and determined by the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, to be necessary (i) to refund the
Refunded Bonds to be refunded by
that Series, (ii) to fund any deposit
to the Debt Service Reserve Fund
required under the Indenture or any

1772

September 10, 2008
special reserve fund for that Series
separate from the Debt Service
Reserve Fund, (iv) to pay costs of
any Credit Support Instruments, (v)
to pay amounts owed under Hedge
Agreements, and (vi) to pay costs
of issuing the Refunding Bonds and
refunding the Refunded Bonds. The
proceeds from the sale of each
Series of Refunding Bonds shall be
allocated, deposited and applied as
provided in Section 4.
The Refunding Bonds may be
issued in one or more separate
Series, each bearing a distinctive
designation, provided that the Refunding Bonds of each Series satisfy the requirements of this Ordinance. Separate Series of Refunding
Bonds may be issued at the same or
different
times.
The
Refunding
Bonds of each Series shall be designated as provided in the applicable Certificate of Award and shall
include in the designation reference
to the calendar year in which the
applicable Series is issued. A separate Certificate of Award and a separate Supplemental Indenture shall
be delivered for each Series.
In the event that the Director of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, determines that the City’s best interests
will be served by causing a Series
of Refunding Bonds to be obligations bearing interest at variable
interest rates, then the Director of
Finance is authorized so to specify
in the Certificate of Award for that
Series. If the Director of Finance so
determines, then the method and
procedure by which the variable
rate of interest to be borne by the
Refunding Bonds of that Series
shall be determined as provided in
the applicable Supplemental Indenture, whether by reference to a market index, by a remarketing agent
or otherwise; provided that no variable rate Refunding Bonds may
bear interest at a rate in excess of
twenty-five percent (25%) per year
(including any Refunding Bonds
held by a provider of a Credit Support Instrument). The Director of
Finance may determine that the
terms of a variable rate Series of
Refunding Bonds may or may not
permit the holders to tender their
variable rate Refunding Bonds for
purchase by the City. If the Director of Finance designates any Series
of Refunding Bonds as variable rate
Refunding Bonds, and if the holders
of that Series of Refunding Bonds
are to be entitled to tender those
Refunding Bonds for purchase, then
the Director of Finance shall also
designate
in
the
Certificate
of
Award
for
those
variable
rate
Refunding Bonds (and may designate others, from time to time, in
substitution therefor) the provider
or providers for any Credit Support
Instrument, the tender agent or
agents and the remarketing agent
or agents, which designations shall
be based on the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that the parties so designated
possess the requisite resources and
experience to provide the services
required of them and that the terms
on which the designated parties
have agreed to provide such ser-

September 10, 2008
vices are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of Finance is
authorized to enter into agreements
in connection with the delivery of
each Series of Refunding Bonds, and
from time to time thereafter so long
as the Refunding Bonds of that
Series
are
outstanding,
with
providers of Credit Support Instruments, tender agents (which may be
the Trustee), remarketing agents
(which may be any of the Original
Purchasers) and others as may be
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance,
based
on
the
written
advice of a Financial Advisor, to be
necessary or appropriate to provide
for the method of determining the
variable interest rates, permitting
holders the right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support
for the payment of variable rate
Refunding Bonds upon tender for
purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the
Credit Support Instrument consistently
with
the
Indenture.
The
Director of Finance is further authorized to terminate any such agreements if the Director of Finance
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor that
the City’s best interests will be
served by such termination. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
pay any fees associated with agreements entered into or terminated
pursuant to this Section from proceeds of Refunding Bonds, to the
extent permitted by the Indenture,
and from the Net Revenues of the
Utility.
Section 3.
Award and Sale of
Refunding Bonds.
The Director of Finance shall sign
and deliver a Certificate of Award
for the Refunding Bonds. In the
event the Refunding Bonds are
issued in more than one Series, a
separate Certificate of Award shall
be signed and delivered for each
separately delivered Series. The sale
of each Series of the Refunding
Bonds shall be awarded to the Original Purchasers selected by the
Director of Finance and identified
in the Certificate of Award, following consultation with the Director of
Public Utilities and based on an
evaluation of the qualifications of
firms that have proposed to underwrite the Refunding Bonds. Each
Certificate of Award shall determine
the following with respect to the
applicable
Series
of
Refunding
Bonds, consistent with this Ordinance and the Indenture:
(a)
the
aggregate
principal
amount of Refunding Bonds issued;
(b) the purchase price to be paid
to the City by the Original Purchasers, which amount shall be not
less than: (i) 97% of the amount
determined by adding to the aggregate principal amount of the Refunding Bonds any aggregate original issue premium and subtracting
from the amount any aggregate
original issue discount, plus (ii) any
accrued interest on the Refunding
Bonds from their date to the date of
their delivery to the Original Purchasers;
(c) whether any Refunding Bonds
are to be subject to optional redemption prior to maturity, and, if so, the

The City Record
earliest optional redemption date for
those Refunding Bonds subject to
prior redemption, which shall be not
later than ten years from the first
interest payment date of the applicable
Series,
and
the
applicable
redemption price, which shall be not
greater than 102% of the principal
amount redeemed;
(d) the dates on which and
amounts in which principal of the
Refunding Bonds is to be paid,
which shall be not later than thirty
(30) years from their respective
dates of issuance, with an identification of whether the payment is
due by stated maturity or by mandatory sinking fund redemption of
Refunding Bonds of a particular
maturity;
(e) the interest rates to be borne
by Refunding Bonds bearing interest at a fixed rate, the weighted
average of which shall not exceed
eight percent (8%) as to Refunding
Bonds of any Series, and the method
by which the interest rate is to be
determined for Refunding Bonds
bearing interest at variable rates,
consistent with Section 2;
(f) the particular Outstanding
Revenue Bonds or portions thereof
to be Refunded Bonds, and the date
or dates on which the Refunded
Bonds shall be called for redemption
or otherwise retired, which shall
comply with Section 149(d) of the
Code and other applicable federal
tax laws;
(g) the title and Series designation for the Refunding Bonds;
(h) the amount, if any, and
source of any money to be deposited in the Debt Service Reserve
Fund in order to cause the balance
therein to equal the Debt Service
Reserve Requirement, if and to the
extent required by the applicable
Supplemental Indenture, and any
determination as to whether there
shall be a special reserve fund for
the Refunding Bonds of any Series,
separate from the Debt Service
Reserve Fund, and any determination as to whether a Credit Support
Instrument shall be provided in
lieu of cash in the Debt Service
Reserve
Fund
or
such
special
reserve fund;
(i) the Paying Agent; and
(j) whether any Refunding Bonds
are to be secured by or payable from
any Credit Support Instruments.
It is determined that the terms of
the Refunding Bonds as so determined within the limitations set
forth in this Ordinance and as so
specified and set forth in the Certificate of Award will be in the best
interest of the City and consistent
with all legal requirements.
The Director of Finance may
enter into a Bond Purchase Agreement with the Original Purchasers
of each Series of Refunding Bonds
setting forth the conditions for
delivery of the Refunding Bonds
that are consistent with this Ordinance, the Certificate of Award, and
the Indenture and that are determined by the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of a
Financial Advisor, to be customary
for water revenue bonds issued by
governmental
entities,
including,
without limitation, representations

1773

7
as to the accuracy and completeness
of information contained in the Official Statement of the City described
in Section 12.
Section 4. Application of Proceeds
of Refunding Bonds.
The proceeds of the sale of each
Series of Refunding Bonds shall be
deposited as provided in the applicable Supplemental Indenture, including:
(a) to the payment of any providers of any Credit Support Instruments,
the
fees
and
expenses
required to be paid by the City to
obtain the Credit Support Instrument;
(b) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of the Interest Account in
the Debt Service Fund, the amount,
if any, received by the City upon
delivery of the Refunding Bonds as
accrued interest on any Refunding
Bonds from their dated date to the
date of the delivery of and payment
for those Refunding Bonds;
(c) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of the Debt Service
Reserve Fund or any special reserve
fund, any amount identified in the
Certificate of Award as required to
be deposited in the Debt Service
Reserve
Fund
or
such
special
reserve fund from the proceeds of
the Refunding Bonds;
(d) to the Trustee, for deposit to
the credit of any Escrow Fund
established pursuant to any Escrow
Agreement, any proceeds to be
applied in accordance with the
Escrow Agreement to refund the
Refunded Bonds;
(e) to the counterparty under any
Hedge Agreement, any payment
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be paid from the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds, including any termination payment in
the event that the Director of
Finance determines it is in the best
interests of the City to terminate a
Hedge Agreement relating to Outstanding Revenue Bonds; and
(f) to the Costs of Issuance Fund,
to be created under the applicable
Supplemental Indenture, such amounts
as are needed to pay costs of issuing the Refunding Bonds and refunding the Refunding Bonds.
Provision shall be made in the
Supplemental Indentures for the
application of any amounts held in
the funds and accounts established
under the Indenture and no longer
required for the security of Outstanding Revenue Bonds as a result
of the Refunded Bonds’ no longer
being Outstanding, or any amounts
that otherwise are in excess of the
required balances. Provisions may
be made in the Supplemental Indentures for the creation of separate
accounts within the funds established under the Indenture or Supplemental Indentures.
The proceeds from the sale of
each Series of Refunding Bonds are
appropriated and shall be used for
the purpose for which those Refunding Bonds are issued as provided in
this Ordinance.
Section 5.
Terms and Provisions
Applicable to the Refunding Bonds.
(a) Form; Exchange and Transfer.
All Refunding Bonds shall be issued
in fully registered form. The Re-

8
funding Bonds initially shall be
delivered only in book-entry form,
shall be registered in the name of
the Depository (as defined in the
Indenture) or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the
custody of the Depository, and shall
not be transferable or exchangeable
(except for transfer to another
Depository or its nominee) without
further action by the City pursuant
to the provisions of the Supplemental Indenture.
(b) Dates; Denominations. The
Refunding Bonds of each Series
shall be dated as of the date or
dates provided in the Certificate of
Award and shall be issued in the
denominations
permitted
in
the
applicable Supplemental Indenture.
(c) Interest and Place of Payment. The Refunding Bonds of each
Series shall bear interest at their
respective interest rates specified in
the Certificate of Award (or, in the
case of variable rate Refunding
Bonds, determined pursuant to the
Supplemental Indenture). The Refunding Bonds of the same Series
and same maturity may bear interest at different interest rates. The
Refunding Bonds of each Series
shall bear interest from the most
recent date to which interest has
been paid or duly provided for or, if
no interest has been paid or duly
provided for, from their date. The
principal and any redemption premium and the interest payable on
each Refunding Bond of a Series
shall be payable at the times, to the
persons and in the manner set forth
in, or referenced by, the applicable
Supplemental Indenture, including,
without limitation, provisions thereof permitting special arrangements
for payments to the Depository.
(d) Maturities. The Refunding
Bonds of each Series shall mature
on the dates and in the respective
principal amounts provided in the
Certificate
of
Award,
consistent
with this Ordinance and the Indenture.
(e) Optional and Mandatory Redemption. The Refunding Bonds of
each Series may be subject to
redemption prior to maturity at the
option of the City, if and to the
extent provided in the Certificate of
Award. Any Refunding Bonds so
determined to be subject to optional
redemption and maturing by their
stated
terms
after
the
earliest
optional redemption date shall be
subject to redemption at the option
of the City on or after the earliest
optional redemption date in whole
or in part on any date at the
redemption prices provided in the
Certificate of Award and in accordance with the applicable Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture.
The Refunding Bonds designated in
the Certificate of Award as term
bonds subject to mandatory sinking
fund redemption shall be redeemed
prior to maturity on each mandatory redemption date designated in
the Certificate of Award in the
aggregate amount of the sinking
fund installment to be paid on such
mandatory redemption date, all as
provided in the Certificate of Award
and in accordance with the Supplemental Indenture.

The City Record
(f) Purchase in Lieu of Redemption. The Refunding Bonds of each
Series may be subject to purchase
by the City in lieu of optional
redemption if and to the extent provided in the Certificate of Award
and the applicable Supplemental
Indenture.
(g) Execution. The Refunding
Bonds of each Series shall be signed
by the persons and in the manner
set forth in the Indenture.
(h) Numbering. The Refunding
Bonds of each Series shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance.
Section 6.
Authorization of Supplemental Indentures; Escrow Agreement.
In order to secure the payment of
the principal of and any premium
and
interest
on
the
Refunding
Bonds,
the
Mayor,
Director
of
Finance and Director of Public Utilities, or any two of them, are authorized to sign and deliver to the
Trustee, in trust for the Original
Purchasers and subsequent holders
of each Series of the Refunding
Bonds, a Supplemental Indenture,
approved as to form by the Director
of Law, not inconsistent with this
Ordinance, the Certificate of Award
and the Indenture and not substantially adverse to the City as may be
approved by the officers signing the
same on behalf of the City. The
determination by those officers that
a Supplemental Indenture is not substantially adverse to the City shall
be conclusively evidenced by the
signing and delivery of that Supplemental Indenture by those officers. Subject to the Original Indenture as theretofore amended, any
Supplemental Indenture may contain
amendments to the Original Indenture, as theretofore amended, or
amend and restate the Original
Indenture, to permit the City to
obtain a Credit Support Instrument
or to permit increased flexibility for
the use of financial or credit structures and techniques determined by
the Director of Finance, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, to be in the best interests
of the City.
In order to cause the proceeds of
each Series of Refunding Bonds and
any funds of the City deposited in
an Escrow Fund to be invested as
permitted under Section 9.02 of the
Indenture so that the Refunded
Bonds are deemed paid and discharged, and in order to cause the
amount to be deposited to be dedicated and applied to the payment of
the principal of and interest and
any redemption premium on the
Refunded Bonds as and when due,
to and including the applicable
redemption date, the Director of
Finance is authorized to sign and
deliver one or more Escrow Agreements between the City and the
Trustee as Escrow Agent, approved
as to form by the Director of Law,
providing for the establishment of
each Escrow Fund as a trust fund
in the custody of the Trustee and
for the investment, dedication and
application of the moneys deposited
in the accounts therein and further
providing for the payment of the
fees and expenses of the Trustee for

1774

September 10, 2008
the performance of its duties as
Escrow Agent. Each Escrow Agreement shall provide for the redemption of the Refunded Bonds identified in the applicable Certificate of
Award to be called for redemption
prior to maturity and shall provide
irrevocable
instruction
to
the
Trustee to effect such redemption in
accordance with the Indenture. The
Director of Finance is authorized to
take such other actions as may be
necessary or appropriate to accomplish the refunding of Refunded
Bonds, including without limitation,
the retention of an independent public accounting firm to verify that
the securities to be in an Escrow
Fund are of such maturities or
redemption dates and interest payment dates, and bear such interest,
as will be sufficient, together with
any cash in an Escrow Fund, for the
payment of debt service on the
Refunded Bond to which the Escrow
Fund relates and to make any determinations required for the interest
on the Refunding Bonds to be
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes.
Section 7. Rebate Fund.
There is established and ordered
to be maintained a separate account
for each Series of Refunding Bonds
within the Rebate Fund held in the
custody of the Trustee under the
Indenture. The Rebate Fund is not
pledged to the payment of debt service and is free and clear of any
pledge or lien given under the
Indenture as security for the Refunding Bonds or the Outstanding
Revenue Bonds. Calculations of excess earnings that may be due and
payable to the federal government
pursuant to the Code and deposits to
those accounts of the Rebate Fund
shall be made as provided in the
applicable Supplemental Indenture.
Section 8. Remarketing.
In the event that the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is advantageous to the
City to convert the interest on any
Outstanding
Revenue
Bonds
or
Refunding Bonds to fixed interest
rates for a period of time or to maturity, or to convert the interest on
any Outstanding Revenue Bonds or
Refunding Bonds to a different variable rate period or mode, or to terminate or take other actions with
respect to any existing Credit Support Instrument that will require a
tender and remarketing of any Outstanding Revenue Bonds or Refunding Bonds under the Indenture
(such conversion or other actions
and the tender and remarketing
being collectively referred to in this
Section as “remarketing”), the City
shall undertake the remarketing in
accordance with the Indenture. In
connection with any remarketing of
Bonds, the Director of Finance is
authorized to obtain one or more
Credit Support Instruments if the
Director determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that the Credit Support Instrument will facilitate the remarketing
of the Bonds. The Director of
Finance is further authorized to terminate any Credit Support Instrument in connection with any remar-

September 10, 2008
keting of Bonds if the Director
determines, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, that
the City’s best interests will be
served by such termination. In the
event the Director of Finance determines, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, that it is
necessary to supplement or amend
the Supplemental Indenture applicable to a Series of Bonds to be remarketed in order to address current
market conditions or to permit the
use of or to terminate a Credit Support Instrument or otherwise obtain
financing
arrangements
advantageous to the City, the Mayor,
the Director of Finance and the
Director of Public Utilities, or any
two of them, are authorized to sign
and deliver an amendment of that
Supplemental
Indenture,
or
an
amended and restated Supplemental
Indenture, approved as to form by
the Director of Law, subject to the
Original Indenture as theretofore
amended. The Director of Finance is
further authorized to satisfy the
Debt Service Reserve Requirement
or any special reserve fund requirement for the Series of Bonds to be
remarketed, by the deposit of a
Credit Support Instrument in lieu of
cash, as permitted and more specifically provided in the Indenture, and
to apply cash released from the
Debt Service Reserve Fund or such
special reserve fund to the payment
of costs of remarketing. To the
extent the costs of remarketing are
not paid from any cash released
from the Debt Service Reserve Fund
or such special reserve fund, those
costs shall be paid from funds of the
Water Division, which are appropriated for that purpose. The Director
of Finance and the Director of Public Utilities are authorized to prepare one or more disclosure documents in connection with any remarketing of Bonds under the same
terms and conditions as set forth in
Section 12 of this Ordinance with
respect to the issuance of Refunding
Bonds. The Director of Finance, the
Director of Public Utilities or any
other officer of the City having
responsibility for the remarketing of
Bonds is authorized to take such
actions or cause to be taken such
actions as are necessary to maintain
the status of such Bonds as TaxExempt
Obligations,
and
the
covenants and authorizations in Section 10 of this Ordinance shall apply
to such Bonds. The Director of
Finance, the Director of Public Utilities and other City officials are
authorized to sign and deliver such
instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions
authorized by this Section. The
Director of Finance, the Director of
Public Utilities, the Director of Law
and other City officials, as appropriate, are authorized to make the
necessary arrangements on behalf
of the City to establish the date,
location, procedure and conditions
for the remarketing of any Bonds
and to take all actions necessary to
effect the remarketing of any Bonds
under the terms of this Ordinance
and the Indenture. The Clerk of
Council or other appropriate official

The City Record
of the City shall furnish the Trustee
a true transcript of proceedings certified by the Clerk or other official,
of all proceedings had with reference to the remarketing of any
Bonds along with such information
for the records as is necessary to
determine the validity of the remarketing.
Section 9. Authorization of Hedging Arrangements.
This Council finds that by engaging in interest rate hedging arrangements with respect to Bonds
the City may reduce its cost of borrowing by optimizing the relative
amounts of its fixed and variable
rate obligations or minimizing the
risk of variations in its debt service
costs or obtaining savings by confirming rates of interest on Bonds
in advance of their issuance. To permit the City to have the flexibility
to undertake with respect to Bonds
interest rate swap, swaption, rate
cap, rate collar and other hedging
transactions, from time to time, and
to
establish
the
procedures
for
approving those transactions, this
Council authorizes the signing and
delivery of one or more agreements,
including amendments or supplements to existing agreements (each,
a “Hedge Agreement”), and any
related agreements necessary for
the consummation of the transactions contemplated by each Hedge
Agreement. The authorizations in
this Section are supplemental to and
not in derogation of any authority
provided by any other ordinance of
this Council concerning hedging
arrangements.
Upon the determination of the
Director of Finance, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that it is to the financial advantage of the City and in the City’s
best
interests
that
a
hedging
arrangement be undertaken by the
City with respect to any Bonds
issued or to be issued under the
Indenture, the Director of Finance
may authorize one or more interest
rate hedge transactions in accordance with the applicable Hedge
Agreement; provided that (a) the
counterparty shall be rated at the
time of signing the Hedge Agreement not lower than A+ or A1 by
at least one rating agency or its
obligations under the Hedge Agreement shall be guaranteed or insured
by an entity rated at the time of
signing the Hedge Agreement not
lower than A+ or A1 by at least one
rating agency, and (b) the term of
each hedge transaction shall not
exceed the final maturity of the
Bonds to which the hedge relates.
The Director of Finance shall
negotiate the terms of each Hedge
Agreement with a counterparty satisfying the credit criteria in this
Ordinance. The City shall receive a
written opinion of a Financial Advisor that the payments to be made
by the counterparty to the City, or
by the City to the counterparty,
shall be fair value for the Hedge
Agreement,
considering,
among
other things, the credit of the counterparty and the terms and conditions of the Hedge Agreement. The
Director of Finance shall determine
the terms and conditions of the

1775

9
Hedge Agreement, including without limitation, the rates to be paid
by the counterparty to the City and
by the City to the counterparty
under the Hedge Agreement, the
time or times and procedures for the
exercise by the counterparty or the
City, as the case may be, of any
option under the Hedge Agreement,
and whether the obligations of the
City under the Hedge Agreement
shall be secured by a Credit Support
Instrument. The approval of each
interest rate hedge transaction by
the Director of Finance shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing
and
delivery
of
the
applicable
Hedge Agreement by the Director of
Finance. The Director of Finance is
further authorized to terminate any
Hedge Agreements or any Credit
Support
Instrument
securing
a
Hedge Agreement if the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that the City’s best interests
will be served by such termination.
The City’s obligations under any
Hedge Agreement shall be payable
from the Net Revenues of the Utility and may be payable also from
other funds permitted by law to be
used for the purpose, as identified
by the Director of Finance in the
Hedge Agreement. Those payments
may be secured by a pledge of Net
Revenues, to the extent permitted
by the Indenture, all as determined
by the Director of Finance and set
forth in the Hedge Agreement. The
obligation of the City to make payments under any Hedge Agreement
does not and shall not represent or
constitute a general obligation, debt,
bonded indebtedness or a pledge of
the faith and credit of the City or
the State of Ohio. Nothing gives any
party to any Hedge Agreement the
right to have excises, ad valorem or
other taxes levied by the City or the
State of Ohio for the payment of any
amounts due under any Hedge
Agreement.
Section 10. Covenants of the City.
The City, by issuance of each
Series of Refunding Bonds, covenants and agrees with the Holders
of that Series of Refunding Bonds,
that:
(a) The City will use the proceeds
of the Refunding Bonds for the purposes specified in Section 2.
(b) The Clerk, or other appropriate officer of the City, will furnish
to the Original Purchasers and to
the Trustee a true transcript of proceedings, certified by the Clerk or
other officer, of all proceedings had
with reference to the issuance of the
Refunding
Bonds,
together
with
information from the City’s records
as is necessary to determine the regularity and validity of the issuance
of the Refunding Bonds.
(c) The City will, at any and all
times, cause to be done all such further acts and things and cause to be
signed and delivered all further
instruments as may be necessary to
carry out the purpose of the Refunding Bonds and this Ordinance or as
may be required by Section 13, Article XVIII of the Constitution of Ohio
or the Charter of the City or the
Indenture or the applicable Supplemental Indenture and will comply

10
with all requirements of law applicable to the Waterworks System and
the operation thereof.
(d) The City will observe and perform all its agreements and obligations provided for in the Refunding
Bonds, this Ordinance, the Indenture
and each Supplemental Indenture.
All of the obligations under this
Ordinance and the Indenture and
each Supplemental Indenture are
hereby established as duties specifically enjoined by law and resulting
from an office, trust or station upon
the City within the meaning of Section 2731.01, Ohio Revised Code.
(e) The City will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the
proceeds
of
the
Refunding
Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Refunding Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds
under Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the
Code or (ii) be treated other than as
bonds to which Section 103(a) of the
Code applies, and (b) the interest
thereon will not be treated as an
item of tax preference under Section
57 of the Code.
(f) The City covenants that (a) it
will take or cause to be taken such
actions that may be required of it
for the interest on the Refunding
Bonds to be and to remain excluded
from
gross
income
for
federal
income tax purposes, (b) it will not
take or authorize to be taken any
actions that would adversely affect
that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons
acting for it, will, among other acts
of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds to the
governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on
investment property acquired with
those proceeds, (iii) make timely
rebate payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports, and (v) refrain from certain
uses of proceeds, and, as applicable,
of property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the
extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
Each covenant made in this section with respect to the Refunding
Bonds is also made with respect to
all issues for which any portion of
the debt service is paid from proceeds of the Refunding Bonds (and,
if different, the original issue and
any refunding issues in a Series of
refundings), to the extent such compliance is necessary to assure exclusion of interest on the Refunding
Bonds from gross income for federal income tax purposes, and the
Director of Finance, or any other
officer having responsibility with
respect to the Refunding Bonds, is
authorized to take such actions with
respect to those issues as they are
authorized in this section to take
with
respect
to
the
Refunding
Bonds.
The
Mayor,
the
Director
of
Finance or any other appropriate
officer of the City is authorized (a)
to make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent,
approval or waiver on behalf of the
City with respect to the Refunding

The City Record
Bonds as the City is permitted or
required to make or give under the
federal income tax laws, including,
without limitation, any of the elections available under Section 148 of
the Code, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting the
favorable tax treatment or status of
the Refunding Bonds or interest
thereon
or
assisting
compliance
with requirements for that purpose,
reducing the burden or expense of
compliance,
reducing
the
rebate
amount or payments or penalties, or
making
payments
of
special
amounts in lieu of making computations to determine, or paying,
excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amount or payments, as
determined by that officer, (b) to
take any and all other actions, make
or obtain calculations, make payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and
on behalf of the City, as may be
appropriate to assure the exclusion
of interest from gross income and
the intended tax status of the
Refunding Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings for the Refunding Bonds, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the City regarding the amount and use of all the
proceeds of the Refunding Bonds,
the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they are based, and
other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment or status
of the Refunding Bonds and interest
thereon.
If the Director of Finance determines, based on the written advice
of a Financial Advisor, and so specifies in the Certificate of Award
that the best interests of the City
would be served by issuing a Series
of Refunding Bonds the interest on
which would not be excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes,
then
the
tax-related
covenants in this Section 10 shall
not apply to or be required to be
made with respect to the Refunding
Bonds of that Series.
Section 11.
Ratings; Credit Enhancement.
If, in the judgment of the Director of Finance, based on the written
advice of a Financial Advisor, the
filing of an application for a rating
on one or more Series of Outstanding Revenue Bonds or Refunding
Bonds by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies is in the
best interests of the City, the Director of Finance is authorized to prepare and submit those applications
and to provide to each such agency
such information as may be required
for the purpose. The Director of
Finance is authorized to contract for
one or more Credit Support Instruments for any Series of Outstanding
Revenue Bonds or Refunding Bonds
if the Director determines, based on
the written advice of a Financial
Advisor, that the Credit Support
Instruments will result in debt service savings to the City, or will stabilize interest rates on those Bonds
or
will
minimize
the
risk
of
increased interest expense on those
Bonds. The Director of Finance is
further authorized to terminate any

1776

September 10, 2008
such contract if the Director of
Finance determines, based on the
written advice of a Financial Advisor, that the City’s best interests
will be served by such termination.
The cost of obtaining each rating
and the cost of obtaining or terminating each Credit Support Instrument, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchasers in accordance
with
the
Bond
Purchase
Agreement, shall be paid from the
proceeds of Refunding Bonds or
funds of the Water Division, which
are appropriated for that purpose.
Section 12.
Official Statements;
Continuing Disclosure.
The Director of Finance, the
Director of Public Utilities, the Commissioner of Water, and other City
officials
as
deemed
appropriate,
each are authorized, on behalf of
the City and in their official capacities, to (i) prepare or cause to be
prepared, and make or authorize
modifications,
completions
or
changes of or supplements to, disclosure documents in the form of a
preliminary official statement relating to the issuance of Refunding
Bonds of one or more Series, and
(ii) determine, and certify or otherwise represent, when each preliminary official statement as so prepared is a “deemed final” official
statement
(except
for
permitted
omissions) by the City as of its date
for purposes of Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Rule
15c2-12(b)(1). The distribution and
use of one or more preliminary official statements are authorized and
approved.
Those officers and each of them
are also authorized, on behalf of the
City and in their official capacities,
to complete each preliminary official statement with such modifications, changes and supplements as
those
officers
shall
approve
or
authorize for the purpose of preparing and determining, and to certify
or otherwise represent, that the official statement as so revised is a
final official statement for purposes
of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b) (3) and (4).
Those officers each are further
authorized to use and distribute, or
authorize the use and distribution
of, one or more final official statements and supplements thereto in
connection
with
the
original
issuance of each Series of Refunding Bonds as may, in their judgment, be necessary or appropriate.
Those officers each are further
authorized to sign and deliver, on
behalf of the City and in their official capacities, each final official
statement
and
such
certificates
regarding the accuracy of each preliminary official statement and each
final official statement and any
amendments thereto as may, in their
judgment, also be necessary or
appropriate. The Director of Finance
is authorized to contract for services
for the production and distribution
of preliminary and final official
statements, including by printed and
electronic means.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of each Series of Refunding Bonds,
the City agrees, in accordance with,
and as an obligated person with

September 10, 2008
respect to the Refunding Bonds
under, SEC Rule 15c2-12, to provide
or cause to be provided such financial information and operating data
and notices, in such manner, as may
be required for purposes of SEC
Rule 15c2-12. In order to describe
and specify certain terms of the
City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose, and thereby
to implement that agreement, including provisions for enforcement,
amendment and termination, the
Director of Finance and the Director of Public Utilities are authorized
to prepare, or cause to be prepared,
and to sign and deliver, in the name
and on behalf of the City, a continuing disclosure agreement or certificate, which shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of
the Refunding Bonds of that Series
in accordance with SEC Rule 15c212. The performance of that agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds and their annual
appropriation to meet costs the City
would be required to incur to perform it.
Section 13. Authorization of Other
Documents.
The Director of Finance, the
Director of Public Utilities and other
City officials are authorized to sign
and deliver such instruments, certificates and documents as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions authorized by
this Ordinance, the Bond Purchase
Agreements,
the
Supplemental
Indentures,
the
Indenture,
the
Escrow Agreements and the Hedge
Agreements.
The Director of Finance, the
Director of Public Utilities, the
Director of Law and other City officials, as appropriate, are authorized
to make the necessary arrangements
on behalf of the City to establish the
date, location, procedure and conditions for the delivery of each Series
of Refunding Bonds to the Original
Purchasers and to take all actions
necessary to effect due signing,
authentication and delivery of each
Series of Refunding Bonds under the
terms of this Ordinance, the Supplemental Indentures, the Bond Purchase Agreements and the Indenture. The Clerk of Council or other
appropriate official of the City shall
furnish the Original Purchasers a
true transcript of proceedings certified by the Clerk or other official,
of all proceedings had with reference to the issuance of each Series
of Refunding Bonds along with such
information for the records as is
necessary to determine the regularity and validity of the issuance of
those Refunding Bonds.
Section 14. Lien of Pledge.
The Net Revenues of the Utility
are subject to the lien of the pledge
under the Indenture without any
physical delivery of the Net Revenues or further act, and the lien of
such pledge is valid and binding
against all parties having claims of
any kind against the City (irrespective of whether such parties
have notice of such pledge and create a perfected security interest for

The City Record
all purposes of Chapter 1309, Ohio
Revised Code) without the necessity for separation of delivery of the
Net Revenues or for the filing or
recording of the Indenture or any
other resolution or instrument by
which such pledge is created or any
certificate, statement or other document with respect to such pledge.
The pledge of the Net Revenues
under the Indenture shall be effective and the money therefrom and
thereof may be applied to the purposes for which pledged without
necessity for any further act of
appropriation.
Section 15.
Financial Advisors
and Consultants.
The Director of Finance may
obtain the services of one or more
Financial Advisors, from time to
time, to assist the Director of
Finance in making any of the
determinations
required
by
this
Ordinance to be determined by the
Director of Finance or to negotiate
any Hedge Agreements. The Director of Finance may rely on the written advice of any Financial Advisor so retained. The Director of
Finance may obtain the services of
one or more feasibility consultants,
from time to time, to provide
reports
in
connection
with
the
issuance and sale of any Refunding
Bonds or the delivery of any Hedge
Agreements concerning the utilization and operation of the Utility,
debt service coverage, rates and
charges
or
other
matters.
Any
Financial Advisor or consultant
employed under the authority of
this Ordinance shall be disinterested in the transaction and be independent of the underwriters or
counterparties and any other party
interested in the transaction.
Section 16.
Appointment of Successor Trustee.
The Director of Finance is authorized to appoint a successor Trustee
in
the
event
that
the
current
Trustee, U.S. Bank, National Association, shall resign or be removed, or
be dissolved or otherwise become
incapable of acting as Trustee
under the Indenture, or in case it
shall be taken under the control of
any public officer or officers or of
a receiver appointed by a court, in
accordance with the provisions of
Section 6.05 of the Original Indenture.
Section 17.
Captions, Headings,
and Section References.
The captions and headings in this
Ordinance are solely for convenience
of reference and in no way define,
limit, or describe the scope or intent
of any Sections, subsections, paragraphs, subparagraphs, or clauses
hereof.
Reference
to
a
Section
means a section of this Ordinance
unless otherwise indicated.
Section 18. Severability.
Each section of this Ordinance
and each subdivision or paragraph
of any section is hereby declared to
be independent and the finding or
holding of any section or any subdivision or paragraph of any section
to be invalid or void shall not be
deemed or held to affect the validity of any other section, subdivision
or paragraph of this Ordinance.

1777

11
Section 19. Interpretation.
Any provisions of the Codified
Ordinances of the City which are
inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance shall not apply to the
Refunding Bonds or matters authorized herein. Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any
manner as would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with
respect to any outstanding bonds,
certificates of indebtedness, other
obligations,
indentures
or
other
agreements or contracts made or
entered into by the City.
Section 20. Validity.
This Council finds and determines
that this Ordinance was passed in
compliance with all applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and the
rules of this Council. This Council
further finds and determines that all
acts and conditions necessary to be
done or performed by the City or to
have been met precedent to and in
the issuing of the Refunding Bonds
in order to make them legal, valid,
and binding special obligations of
the City have been performed and
have been met, or will at the time
of delivery of the Refunding Bonds
have been performed and have been
met, in regular and due form as
required by law, and that no limitation of indebtedness or taxation,
either statutory or constitutional, is
applicable to the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds.
Section 21. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements.
This Council finds and determines
that all formal actions of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to the passage
of this Ordinance were taken in an
open meeting of this Council or committees, and that all deliberations of
this Council and any of its committees that resulted in those formal
actions were in meetings open to the
public, all in compliance with the
law.
Section 22.
Sunset of Authorization.
The authority granted by this Ordinance shall expire two years from
the effective date of this Ordinance.
If a preliminary official statement
with respect to the Refunding Bonds
is distributed under the authority of
this Ordinance at any time within the
two-year period following its effective date, then the authority granted
by this Ordinance shall not expire as
to those Refunding Bonds. The Director of Finance shall notify the Chairman of the Finance Committee and
the Clerk of this Council of the initiation of the issuance of any Refunding Bonds under the authority of this
Ordinance.
Section 23. Emergency.
This Ordinance is hereby declared
to be an emergency measure and,
provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all members
elected to Council, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by
the Mayor; otherwise it shall take
effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.

12
Ord. No. 1327-08.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into an amendment to the
existing Lease Agreement with I-X
Center Corporation to change the
areas comprising the leased premises, to extend the term, and to
change other terms of the lease.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into an amendment to the existing
Lease Agreement with I-X Center
Corporation
(the
“Lease”),
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 68-94,
passed January 18, 1994 as amended by Ordinance No. 77-99, passed
January 14, 1999, (the “Amendment”) to change the areas comprising the leased premises, to
extend the term, and to change
other terms of the Lease, which are
contained in the draft Amendment
which is placed in File No. 1327-08A
Section 2. That the Amendment
shall include, but not be limited to,
the following provisions which are
more fully described in the abovementioned file:
(a) To change the areas that comprise the leased premises (“Premises”).
(b) To extend the current term of
the Lease for an additional 5 years,
with four options to renew for additional consecutive five-year periods,
exercisable by the I-X Center Corporation.
(c) That commencing February 1,
2014, the I-X Center Corporation will
pay base rent to the City at the
annual rate of $2,000,000, subject to
periodic
upward
cost
of
living
adjustments.
(d) That the I-X Center Corporation will procure and pay for insurance in agreed-upon amounts on the
Premises.
(e) That the I-X Center Corporation will no longer have the right
to terminate the Lease in the event
that a new convention/exposition
center containing more than 300,000
square feet is developed within the
municipal boundaries of the City of
Cleveland, or if the existing downtown convention center is expanded by more than 100,000 square
feet.
(f) That the City will grant to IX Center Corporation a right of first
refusal to acquire the Premises from
the City.
(g) To delete the existing eminent
domain provisions contained in the
Lease and to grant the City the
right to terminate the Lease and
recapture the I-X Center at any time
after February 1, 2014 for one of the
various “Airport Uses” set out in the
Amendment.
(h) That in the event of a recapture, I-X Corporation would not

The City Record
pay rent during the notice period.
However,
all
other
obligations
under the Lease would continue to
apply.
(j) All other terms and conditions
of the Lease shall remain in force
and effect throughout the term of
the Amendment
Section 2. That the Amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1328-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
issue rent credits to Continental Airlines, under Contract No. 38171, for
relocating its credit union office on
the baggage claim level of the Airport terminal building; and authorizing the Director to enter into an
amendment to the contract regarding the rent credits.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into an amendment to Contract No.
38171 (“Amendment”) with Continental Airlines, to issue rent credits to Continental Airlines for relocating its credit union office on
the baggage claim level of the Airport terminal building to accommodate airport development. The
rent credit amount will be equal to
the actual cost to make the improvements.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to execute any additional documents necessary and appropriate to issue the
rent credits.
Section 3. That the Amendment
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.

1778

September 10, 2008
Ord. No. 1329-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2380-02,
passed December 16, 2002, as amended by Ordinance No. 468-04, passed
April 26, 2004, and Ordinance No.
1853-06, passed December 11, 2006,
relating to contracts for planning
studies for the Department of Port
Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2380-02, passed December
16, 2002, as amended by Ordinance
No. 468-04, passed April 26, 2004, and
Ordinance No. 1853-06, passed December 11, 2006, is amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
by contract or contracts one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to prepare planning studies, for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for the employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling the list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved
by the Director of Port Control, and
certified
by
the
Director
of
Finance. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be for a term or
terms of two years with each contract entered into under this ordinance having one option to renew
for an additional term or terms of
two years and a second option to
renew for one additional term or
terms not to exceed two years. No
contract shall have a term longer
than six years in total, consisting
of the initial two-year term and a
single two-year option to renew.
The Director of Port Control will
notify the Clerk of Council and the
Chair of the Aviation Committee
whenever an option to renew has
been exercised.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 2380-02, passed
December 16, 2002, as amended by
Ordinance No. 468-04, passed April
26, 2004, and Ordinance No. 1853-06,
passed December 11, 2006, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the

September 10, 2008
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1330-08.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
lease certain property located at
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport known as Lots S-24 and S-25 to
Continental Airlines, Inc. for a period not to exceed eleven years for
the purpose of maintaining and
operating flight operations facilities.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property located at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport known as Lots S-24 and S-25,
which are not needed for public use;
and
Whereas, Continental Airlines, Inc.
has proposed to lease the property
from the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Port Control is authorized to lease to Continental Airlines, Inc. certain property located at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport known as Lots
S-24 and S-25 which are not needed
for public use for the term of the
lease.
Section 2. That the term of the
lease authorized by this ordinance
shall not exceed eleven years.
Section 3. That the property
described above shall be leased at
$69,275 per annum, which is determined to be the fair market ground
rental rate, for years 1 through 6
of the lease. During year 6 of the
lease, the City will cause a second
appraisal to be conducted to determine fair market ground rental
rate, which will be effective beginning with year 7 of the lease.
Then, beginning with year 7 of the
lease, the property shall be leased
at fair market ground rental rate
determined by the Board of Control, and agreed upon by the parties.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize Continental Airlines, Inc.
to make improvements to the leased
premises subject to the approval of
appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain any terms and condi-

The City Record
tions as are required to protect the
interests of the City.
Section 6. That the Director of
Port Control, the Director of Law,
and other appropriate City officials
are authorized to execute any other
documents and certificates, and
take any other actions which may
be necessary or appropriate to
effect the lease authorized by this
ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Aviation and Transportation, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1331-08.
By Council Members Kelley, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional consultants or computer software developers to develop AutoCad software
and upgrades, or vendors to acquire
licenses and upgrades to AutoCad
software, including but not limited
to, necessary equipment and services, installation and set-up, design,
training, hosting, implementing, testing, maintaining, technical support,
and other related issues for a period
of two years, with two one-year
options to renew, the first of which
is exercisable through additional
legislative authority; and to enter
into various written standard purchase and requirement contracts for
equipment and services not obtained
under the professional services contract or contracts.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to employ
one or more professional consultants
or computer software developers to
develop AutoCad software and upgrades, or vendors to acquire licenses and upgrades to AutoCad software, for the Department of Port
Control, including but not limited to,
necessary equipment and services,
installation and set-up, design, training, hosting, implementing, testing,
maintaining, technical support, and
other related issues for a period of
two years, with two one-year options
to renew. The first of the one-year
options to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative
authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted and the
first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second

1779

13
of the one-year options to renew
may be exercisable at the option of
the Director of Port Control, without
the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council.
The selection of the consultants,
computer software developers, or
vendors for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Port
Control from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Port Control, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to make
one or more written standard purchase contracts and written requirement contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for a period of
two years, with two one-year options
to renew for the necessary items of
equipment and services not obtained
under Section 1 of this ordinance, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Port
Control. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. The first of the one-year
options to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative
authority. If such additional legislative authority is granted and the
first of the one-year options to
renew is exercised, then the second
of the one-year options to renew
may be exercisable at the option of
the Director of Port Control, without
the necessity of obtaining additional authority of this Council.
Section 3. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation
accounts
and
the
Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase,
which purchase, together with all
later purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the contract or contracts certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 4. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Port Control may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 5. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall

14
be paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001,
Request No. 175227.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1332-08.
By Council Members Kelley and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 588-08, passed July 2, 2008,
relating to authorizing the Director
of Port Control to enter into one or
more contracts with Critical Business Analysis, Inc. regarding the
acquisition of Expedition software;
to supplement the ordinance by
adding new Section 2; and to
renumber existing Section 2 to new
Section 3.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 588-08,
passed July 2, 2008, are amended to
read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control
to enter into one or more contracts
with Critical Business Analysis,
Inc. for professional services necessary to acquire Expedition software licenses and upgrades to
Expedition software, including but
not limited to, installation, integration, set-up, maintenance, training, hosting, implementing, testing,
support services, and other related
issues for a period of one year,
with two one-year options to renew,
the second of which is exercisable
through
additional
legislative
authority.
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with Critical Business Analysis, Inc. (“CBA”)
for professional services necessary
to
acquire
Expedition
software
licenses and upgrades to Expedition
software, including but not limited
to, installation, integration, set-up,
maintenance, training, hosting, implementing, testing, support services, and other related issues, on
the basis of CBA’s proposals dated
March 18, 2008, and September 4,
2008, in an amount not to exceed
$51,500.00, for the Department of
Port Control, for a period of one
year, with two one-year options to
renew. The first of the one-year
options to renew may be exercised
by the Director of Port Control,
without the necessity of obtaining

The City Record
additional authority of this Council.
The second of the one-year options
to renew may not be exercised without additional legislative authority.
The contract or contracts shall be
paid from Fund No. 60 SF 001, Request No. 175207.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 58808, passed July 2, 2008, are repealed.
Section 3. That Ordinance No. 58808, passed July 2, 2008 is supplemented by adding new Section 2 to
read as follows:
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into
any
third-party
agreements
necessary to effectuate the purposes
of this ordinance.
Section 4. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 588-08, passed July
2, 2008, is renumbered to new “Section 3”.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Committees
on Aviation and Transportation,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1333-08.
By Council Members Kelley, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 571.80 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 1819-50,
passed December 4, 1950, relating to
hours of operation at Burke Lakefront Airport.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 571.80 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1819-50, passed December 4, 1950, is amended to read
as follows:
Section 571.80 Hours of Operation
and Flight Rules and Conditions for
Burke Lakefront Airport
(a) Burke Lakefront Airport is open
twenty-four (24) hours and operates
under Visual and Instrument Flight
Rule conditions.
(b) No aircraft shall be operated
in such a manner as to pass over
Cleveland Municipal Stadium at any
time.
(c) All aircraft operating from the
Airport shall make their turn after
take off in such a manner that the
Airport shall be between the aircraft
and the City.
(d) All aircraft operating in the
traffic pattern at the Airport shall

1780

September 10, 2008
operate in such a manner as to fly
between the breakwall and the
active runway, over the water, on
the downwind leg of the pattern.
(1)
Southwest
traffic
pattern:
right hand.
(2) Northeast traffic pattern: left
hand.
Section 2. That existing Section
571.80 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1819-50, passed
December 4, 1950, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Legislation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1334-08.
By Council Members Kelley, Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 571.84 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2147-90,
passed November 5, 1990, relating to
tie-down spaces at Burke Lakefront
Airport.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 571.84 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by Ordinance No. 2147-90, passed November 5,
1990, is amended to read as follows:
Section 571.84 Tie-Down Spaces at
Burke Lakefront Airport; Fee
The Director of Port Control is
authorized to enter into permit
agreements for use and occupancy
of aircraft tie-down spaces at Burke
Lakefront Airport. The Director of
Port Control shall fix the rental for
such tie-down spaces.
Section 2. That existing Section
571.84 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 2147-90, passed
November 5, 1990, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Legislation, Finance.

September 10, 2008

The City Record

15

Ord. No. 1335-08.
By Council Members Santiago, Zone, Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to the Urban Community
School to encroach into the public right-of-way above Lorain Avenue with 12 banners to be attached to Cleveland
Public Power utility poles (by separate permission).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of Council, to Urban Community School (“Permittee”), 4909 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland Ohio, 44102, to encroach into the
public right-of-way above Lorain Avenue by installing, using, and maintaining 12 banners to be attached to
Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate permission) at the locations more fully described as follows:
LOCATION

POLE NUMBER

POLE OWNER

Lorain Avenue
N.E. corner West 48th Street
S.E. corner West 48th Street
N.W. corner West 48th Street
S.W. corner West 48th Street
N.E. corner West 50th Street
S.E. corner West 50th Street
N.W. corner West 50th Street
S.W. corner West 50th Street

No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No

Tag
Tag
Tag
Tag
Tag
Tag
Tag
Tag

CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP
CPP

South side of Lorain Avenue
2nd pole west of West 48th Street
3nd pole west of West 48th Street

No Tag
No Tag

CPP
CPP

North side of Lorain Avenue
2nd pole west of West 48th Street
3nd pole west of West 48th Street

No Tag
No Tag

CPP
CPP

Section 2. That Permittee may assign the permit only with the written consent of the Director of Public Service.
That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered to grant to Permittee any right, privilege, or
permission to use, or to attach or affix any object to, poles; Permittee shall obtain such permission from the
respective pole owner.
Section 3. That the encroaching structures permitted by this ordinance shall conform to plans and specifications
approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That Permittee shall obtain all other required
permits, including but not limited to Building Permits, before installing the encroachments.
Section 4. That the Director of Law shall prepare the permit authorized by this ordinance and shall incorporate
such additional provisions as the director determines necessary to protect and benefit the public interest. The
permit shall be issued only when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, Permittee has properly indemnified the
City against any loss that may result from the encroachment(s) permitted.
Section 5. That the Permit shall reserve reasonable right of entry to the encroachment location to the
City.
Section 6. That this ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon
its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Service, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.

Ord. No. 1336-08.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Brady, Cimperman and Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance designating the portion of Rose Court
between East 35th Street and East
37th Street as “Foxhall Court” as
a secondary and honorary designation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the portion of Rose
Court between East 35th Street and

East 37th Street shall also be known
as “Foxhall Court” as a secondary
and honorary designation.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

1781

Ord. No. 1337-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to apply for and accept a grant
from the Criminal Justice Services
Agency for the 2009 Cleveland Team
Approach to Domestic Violence; to
enter into one or more contracts
with Cuyahoga County and one or
more contracts with professional
consultants to implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

16
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $181,340, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term,
from the Criminal Justice Service
Agency, to conduct the 2009 Cleveland Team Approach to Domestic
Violence, for the purposes set forth
in the application and according
thereto; that the Director of Public
Safety is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that said funds are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the application for the
grant.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 1337-08-A made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten, as
presented to the Finance Committee
of this Council at the public hearing
on this legislation and shall not be
changed without additional legislative authority, including the obligation of the City of Cleveland to provide cash matching funds in the
sum of $45,340 from Fund Nos. 10 SF
025, 10 SF 027, and 10 SF 049, is
approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
County of Cuyahoga and one or
more contracts with professional
consultants to implement the program as described in the file,
payable from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds and cash match accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1338-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Office of Criminal Justice
Services for the 2008 State Byrne
Memorial Justice Assistance Grant;
and authorizing the purchase by one
or more requirement contracts of
various types of surveillance equipment, for the Department of Public
Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply

The City Record
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $114,375, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the Ohio Office of Criminal
Justice Services to conduct the 2008
State Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (“JAG”); that the Director is authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds under the
grant; and that the funds are appropriated for the purposes described in
the grant application for the grant
contained
in
the
file
described
below.
Section 2. That the grant application for the grant File No. 1338-08-A
made a part of this ordinance as if
fully rewritten, as presented to the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the amount
of $38,125.00 from Fund Nos. 10 SF
025, 10 SF 027, and 10 SF 049, is
approved in all respects and shall
not be changed without additional
legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant term of the necessary
items of various types of surveillance equipment, in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding term, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis for the Department of Public Safety. Bids shall be
taken in a manner that permits an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines. Alternate bids
for a period less than the specified
term may be taken if desired by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 5. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the

1782

September 10, 2008
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1339-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to apply for and accept a grant from
the State of Ohio for the Northern
Ohio Law Enforcement Task Force
Program; and authorizing the Director to enter into one or more contracts with various agencies, entities, or individuals to implement the
grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $29,629.63,
and any other funds that may become available during the grant
term from the State of Ohio for the
Northern Ohio Law Enforcement
Task
Force
Program;
that
the
Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds
under the grant; and that the funds
are appropriated for the purposes
described in the letter from the
Northern Ohio Law Enforcement
Task Force, dated July 9, 2008, for
the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the letter from the
Northern Ohio Law Enforcement
Task Force, dated July 9, 2008, for
the grant, File No. 1339-08-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with
agencies, entities, or individuals to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.

September 10, 2008
Ord. No. 1340-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to apply for and accept a grant from
United States Department of Justice,
COPS Office, for the COPS Technology Program; authorizing the purchase by one or more requirement
contracts of network equipment and
related materials, equipment, supplies, and services; and authorizing
the director to employ one or more
professional consultants to implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the
approximate amount of $888,535, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term,
from the United States Department
of Justice, COPS Office, to conduct
the COPS Technology Program; that
the Director is authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
the grant; and that the funds are
appropriated
for
the
purposes
described in the application packet
for the grant contained in the file
described below.
Section 2. That the application
packet for the grant, File No. 134008, made a part of this ordinance as
if fully rewritten, as presented to
the
Finance
Committee
of
this
Council at the public hearing on this
legislation,
is
approved
in
all
respects and shall not be changed
without
additional
legislative
authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements during the grant period of the necessary items of network equipment
and related materials, equipment,
supplies, and services needed to
implement the grant as described in
the file, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies on a unit basis for the
Department of Public Safety. Bids
shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for
all items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any
combination of the items as the
Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period less than the
specified term may be taken if
desired by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 5. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and

The City Record
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to employ by contract or contracts one or
more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants for the purpose
of
supplementing
the
regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to implement the
grant as described in the file.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Public
Safety from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Safety for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Safety, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 8. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from the fund or funds
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted under this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1341-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Department of Justice for the 2008 Edward Byrne
Memorial Justice Assistance Grant,
for the Department of Public Safety; and authorizing the purchase by
one or more requirement contracts
of materials, equipment, supplies,
and services necessary to implement
the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $179,820.18, and

1783

17
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the United States Department
of Justice to conduct the 2008 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (“JAG”); that the Director is authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds under the
grant; and that the funds are appropriated for the purposes described in
the subgrant application for the
grant contained in the file described
below.
Section 2. That the subgrant application for the grant, File No. 134108-A, made a part of this ordinance
as if fully rewritten, as presented to
the Finance Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to make
one or more written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements of
materials, equipment, supplies, and
services necessary to implement the
grant during the grant term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies on a unit
basis for the Department of Public
Safety. Bids shall be taken in a
manner that permits an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of the
items as the Board of Control determines. Alternate bids for a period
less than the specified term may be
taken if desired by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 4. That the costs of the
contract
or
contracts
shall
be
charged against the proper appropriation accounts and the Director
of Finance shall certify the amount
of the initial purchase, which purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies under a requisition against
the contract or contracts certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 5. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.

18
Ord. No. 1342-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from the
United States Department of Justice
for the 2008 Paul Coverdell Forensic
Science Improvement Program; authorizing the purchase by one or more
written standard purchase and requirement contracts of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services
needed to implement the grant; and
authorizing the Director to employ
one or more professional consultants,
computer software developers, or vendors to acquire licenses and upgrades
or
develop
LIMS
software
and
upgrades, for a period of two years,
including if necessary, installing,
designing, training, implementing,
testing, maintaining, technical support, and other related issues for a
period up to two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $95,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term,
from the United States Department
of Justice to conduct the 2008 Paul
Coverdell Forensic Science Improvement Program; that the Director is
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes described in the
application for the grant contained
in the file described below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 1342-08-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully rewritten, as presented to the Finance
Committee of this Council at the public hearing on this legislation and
shall not be changed without additional legislative authority, is approved in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of Public Safety is authorized to make one
or more written standard purchase
contracts and written requirement
contracts under the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, during the grant term of
the necessary items of materials,
equipment, supplies, and services
necessary to implement the grant as
described in the file, including but
not limited to LIMS computer equipment and appurtenances and one
portable Livescan System, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies on a unit basis
for the Department of Public Safety.
Bids shall be taken in a manner that
permits an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of the items as the Board of
Control determines.
Section 5. That the costs of the
requirement contract or contracts
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation accounts and the Director of Finance shall certify the
amount of the initial purchase, which
purchase, together with all later purchases, shall be made on order of the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies under a requisition against the

The City Record
contract or contracts certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 6. That under Section
108(b) of the Charter, the purchases
authorized by this ordinance may be
made through cooperative agreements using state procedures. The
Director of Public Safety may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to make the purchases, and may enter into one or
more contracts with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to employ one or more professional consultants, computer software developers, or vendors to acquire licenses and upgrades or develop LIMS
software and upgrades, for a period
of two years, including if necessary,
installing,
designing,
training,
implementing, testing, maintaining,
technical support, and other related
issues for a period up to two years
The selection of the consultants,
computer software developers, or
vendors for the services shall be
made by the Board of Control on the
nomination of the Director of Public
Safety from a list of qualified consultants available for employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Public Safety for the purpose
of compiling a list. The compensation to be paid for the services shall
be fixed by the Board of Control.
The contract or contracts authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Public Safety, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 8. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds which are
accepted under this ordinance.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1343-08.
By Council Members Conwell and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety
to apply for and accept a grant from
the United States Department of Justice for the Gang Prevention Coordination Assistance Program; and
authorizing the Director to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Partnership for a Safer Cleveland to
implement the grant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to apply
for and accept a grant in the approximate amount of $200,000, and
any other funds that may become
available during the grant term
from the United States Department
of Justice to conduct the Gang Prevention
Coordination
Assistance
Program; that the Director is autho-

1784

September 10, 2008
rized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under the grant; and that
the funds are appropriated for the
purposes described in the application for the grant contained in the
file described below.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 1343-08-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation, is approved in all respects
and shall not be changed without
additional legislative authority.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
during the grant term.
Section 4. That the Director of
Public Safety is authorized to enter
into one or more contracts with the
Partnership for a Safer Cleveland to
implement the grant as described in
the file.
Section 5. That the costs of the
contract or contracts authorized by
this ordinance shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1344-08.
By
Council
Members
Conwell,
Cleveland and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 135.065 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 646-92,
passed June 1, 1992, relating to the
purchase of firearms, ammunition,
helmets, tasers, and K-9 police dogs,
for the Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 135.065 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 646-92, passed June 1,
1992, is amended to read as follows:
Section 135.065 Purchase of Firearms, Ammunition, Helmets, Tasers,
and K-9 Police Dogs, for the Department of Public Safety
(a) The Director of Public Safety
is authorized to enter into one or
more requirement or standard purchase contracts under the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as may be necessary, from time to time, for the
purchase of each or all of the following items:
Nine millimeter handguns, including magazine clips and holsters.
Shotguns, including necessary appurtenances.
Rifles, including necessary appurtenances.
Ammunition,
both
service
and
reload.
Helmets, including any necessary
attachments.

September 10, 2008
Tasers, including any necessary
equipment.
K-9 police dogs, including any related equipment, supplies, and training.
(b) Any purchase made under this
section shall be made by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
and paid from the annual appropriation made for such purpose.
Section 2. That existing Section
135.065 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 646-92, passed June
1, 1992, is repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Safety, Finance.
Ord. No. 1345-08.
By Council Members Johnson and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to employ one
or more professional consultants to
provide services necessary to manage the Gateway East and Gateway
North Garages, for a period up to
three years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to employ by contract or
contracts one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants for
the purpose of supplementing the
regularly employed staff of the several departments of the City of
Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary to manage the Gateway East and Gateway
North Garages for a period not to
exceed three years.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties from a
list of qualified consultants available for employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purpose of compiling a list. The
compensation to be paid for the services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, and certified by the
Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from the fund or funds to
which are credited the fees collected from the operation of the Gateway
East
and
Gateway
North
Garages.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

The City Record
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Committees on Public Parks,
Property and Recreation, Finance.
Ord. No. 1346-08.
By Council Member Cummins.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Denison Avenue to
Robert E. Prunty and Gayle Prunty.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Robert E. Prunty and Gayle Prunty.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 015-24-015
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
13 in Gates and Bash's Allotment of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lot No. 56 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page
63 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
also
part
of
Original
Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 65, bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Denison Avenue S.W. (50 feet wide)
at the Southwesterly corner of said
Sublot No. 13, thence Easterly along
said Northerly line of Denison Avenue
S.W. about 52 feet to its point of Intersection with the Westerly line of a
parcel of land conveyed to Aleksander Lekowski and Stanislawa
Lekowski by deed dated July 7, 1927,
and recorded in Volume 3522 Page 410
of Cuyahoga County Records, thence
Northerly along said Westerly line of
a parcel of land so conveyed to Aleksander Lekowski and Stanislawa
Lekowski about 173 feet to the
Southerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Amelia Keller by deed dated
September 9, 1925 and recorded in Volume 3176 Page 476 of Cuyahoga County Records thence Westerly along
said Southerly line of a parcel of land
so conveyed to Amelia Keller 6 feet
to the Westerly line of Original Lot
No. 65, thence Southerly along said
Westerly line of Original Lot No. 65,
a distance of about 23 feet to the
Northeasterly corner of said Sublot
No. 13, thence Westerly along the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 13,
which is also the Southerly line of a
10 foot alley, 45 feet 4 2/5 inches to
the Northwesterly corner thereof,
thence Southerly along the Westerly
line of Sublot No. 13, a distance of 142

1785

19
feet 4 1/2 inches to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject to
all legal highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1347-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on West 33rd Street to
Richard H. Lennon, Bishop of Cleveland Catholic Diocese.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more
fully
described
below,
to
Richard H. Lennon, Bishop of Cleveland Catholic Diocese.

20
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 007-31-069
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
1 in The Roehl Subdivision of part
of Original Brooklyn Township Lot
No. 67, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 31 of Maps, Page 22
of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 25 feet front on the Westerly
side of West 33rd Street and extending back 126.85 feet on the Northerly line, 127.00 feet on the Southerly
line and having a rear line of 25
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.

Ord. No. 1349-08.
By Council Members Pierce Scott
and Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Building and
Housing to employ one or more professional consultants to provide title
search services in conjunction with
the City’s demolition program, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Building and Housing is authorized
to employ by contract or contracts

The City Record
one or more consultants or one or
more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide title search services in conjunction with the City’s
demolition program, for a period not
to exceed two years.
The selection of the consultants
for the services shall be made by
the Board of Control on the nomination of the Director of Building
and Housing from a list of qualified
consultants available for employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Building and Housing
for the purpose of compiling a list.
The compensation to be paid for the
services shall be fixed by the Board
of Control. The contract or contracts
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law, approved by the
Director of Building and Housing,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 20 SF 512
and 20 SF 518, Request No. 162666.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Building
and Housing, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1350-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Law to apply for
and accept a grant from the Criminal Justice Services Agency for the
2009 Team Approach to Domestic
Violence; and to enter into one or
more contracts with Cuyahoga County and professional consultants to
implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Law
is authorized to apply for and accept
a grant in the approximate amount
of $136,000, and any other funds that
may become available during the
grant term, from the Criminal Justice Service Agency, to conduct the
2009 Team Approach to Domestic
Violence, for the purposes set forth
in the application and according
thereto; that the Director of Law is
authorized to file all papers and execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under the grant;
and that the funds are appropriated
for the purposes set forth in the
application for the grant.
Section 2. That the application for
the grant, File No. 1350-08-A, made a
part of this ordinance as if fully
rewritten,
as
presented
to
the
Finance Committee of this Council
at the public hearing on this legislation and shall not be changed
without additional legislative authority, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the sum of
$45,340, from Fund No. 01-100100639905, is approved in all respects.

1786

September 10, 2008
Section 3. That the Director of
Law is authorized to enter into one
or more contracts with the County
of Cuyahoga and one or more contracts with professional consultants
to
implement
the
program
as
described in the file.
Section 4. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the grant proceeds accepted
under this ordinance and the cash
match.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1375-08.
By Council Members Turner and
Sweeney (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human resources to employ one or
more professional services necessary to provide group medical, prescription, and dental insurance coverage, vision and life insurance coverage, the medical reimbursement
accounts, dependent care accounts,
and premium pass-through benefits
under Internal Revenue Code Section 125 for City of Cleveland
employees, for a period of one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources is
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts in order to provide professional services necessary to provide
group medical, prescription, and
dental insurance coverage, vision
and life insurance coverage, the
medical
reimbursement
accounts,
dependent care accounts, and premium pass-through benefits under
Internal Revenue Code Section 125
for City of Cleveland employees, for
a period of one year.
The selection of the carriers shall
be made by the Board of Control on
the nomination of the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources
from a list of qualified carriers as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources for
the purpose of compiling a list. The
cost to be paid for the contracts
shall be fixed by the Board of Control. The contract or contracts authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Personnel and Human Resources, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the contracts shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain any conditions
and provisions that the Director
deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest including
terms related to which insurance
coverage will cover employees consistent with the terms of the collective bargaining agreements ratified
by the City, and the terms and conditions for transferring employees
from one plan to another as collective bargaining agreements are ratified by the City.

The City Record

September 10, 2008
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts authorized shall
be paid from funds appropriated in
budget year 2009 for this purpose,
Request No. 162037.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency mea-

sure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

21
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Personnel
and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Committees on Employment,
Affirmative Action and Training,
Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCE REFERRED
Ord. No. 1353-08.
By Council Member Brady.
An ordinance to change the Use District of land on the southeast corner of West 130th Street and Bellaire Road
from General Retail Business to Semi-Industry (Map Change No. 2268, Sheet No. 12).
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Use District of lands bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the centerline of Bellaire Road at its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the southwesterly line of Sublot Number 3 in the Highview Subdivision as shown on the recorded plat in Volume 83 of
Maps, Page 27 of Cuyahoga County Map Records, said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent
Parcel Number 021-19-112;
Thence southeasterly along said prolongation of said southwesterly line to its intersection with the easterly
line thereof;
Thence southerly along said easterly line to its intersection with the southerly line of Sublot Number 2 in said
Highview Subdivision;
Thence westerly along said southerly line to its intersection with a line drawn 125 feet easterly and parallel
to the easterly line of West 130th Street;
Thence southerly along said parallel line to its intersection with the northerly line of a parcel of land conveyed to Norris Holdings Inc. by deed dated February 4th 1997 as recorded in Auditor’s File Number V97009680029,
said parcel also being known as Cuyahoga County’s Permanent Parcel Number 019-23-005;
Thence westerly along said northerly line and along its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of West 130th Street;
Thence northerly along said centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Bellaire Road;
Thence northeasterly along said centerline of Bellaire Road to its intersection with the northwesterly prolongation of the southwesterly line of the aforementioned Sublot Number 3 in the Highview Subdivision and the principal place of beginning;
and as shaded on the attached map is changed to a Semi-Industry Use District.
Section 2. That the changed designation of lands described in Section 1 shall be identified as Map Change No.
2268, Sheet No. 12 and shall be made upon the Building Zone Maps of the City of Cleveland on file in the office
of the Clerk of Council and on file in the office of the City Planning Commission by the appropriate person designated for this purpose by the City Planning Commission.
Section 3. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committee on City Planning.

1787

22
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS REFERRED
Res. No. 1351-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency resolution to adopt
and declare a Tax Budget for the
City of Cleveland for the year 2009
and submit it to the County Budget
Commission as required by State
Law, Chapter 5705 of the Revised
Code.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council, under
the provisions of Chapter 5705 of
the Revised Code, after public hearings as required by law, does adopt
the statements of the year 2009
requirements for the several funds
of the City of Cleveland as being
the budget required by state law to
be submitted to the County Budget
Commission,
which
requirements
are contained in File No. 1351-08-A.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to certify a copy of
the resolution to the County Auditor
of Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Res. No. 1352-08.
By Council Members Reed, Brady,
Cimperman and Sweeney (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring the intent to vacate a portion of
East 104th Street.
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause to vacate a
portion of East 104th Street, as
described; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council declares its intent to vacate a portion
of the following described real property:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being all that
portion of East 104th Street (50 ft.
wide) extending Southerly from the
Southerly line of Park Heights Road
S.E. (40 ft. wide) to its Southerly
terminus.
Description
approved
by
Greg
Esber, Section Chief, Plats, Surveys
and House Numbering Section.
Section 2. That this resolution is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1348-08.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Churchill Avenue to
Famicos Foundation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That under Section
183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is
authorized to sell the real property,
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 120-01-045
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
No. 88 in the Phillips Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot Nos. 386 and 387 as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 19 of
Maps, Page 23 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Churchill Avenue N.E. and extending back of
equal width, 98.90 feet deep on the
Easterly line, 93.50 feet deep on the
Westerly line and 40.35 feet wide in
the rear as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 120-01-046
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
89 in Sarah Phillips’ Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot Nos. 386 and 387, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 19 of
Maps, Page 23 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Churchilll

1788

September 10, 2008
Avenue, N.E. and extending back
93.56 feet deep on the Easterly line,
88.22 feet deep on the Westerly line
and 40.35 feet wide in the rear, said
rear line being along the Southerly
side of Hull Avenue, N.E. (40 feet
wide) as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 120-01-047
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
90 in the Phillip’s Subdivision of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lot
Nos. 386 and 387 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 19 of Maps,
Page
23
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Churchill Avenue, N.E. (formerly Churchill Street),
and extending back 82.88 feet on the
Westerly line, 88.22 feet on the Easterly line, and having a rear line of
40.36 feet, which is also the Southerly line of Hull Avenue, N.E. (formerly Eastlake Street), as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

September 10, 2008
Ord. No. 1354-08.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an agreement
with the Mount Pleasant NOW Development Corporation for the East
145th Street Kinsman Retail Center
Project through the use of Ward 3
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Mount Pleasant NOW Development Corporation for the East
145th Street Kinsman Retail Center
Project for the public purpose of
new job creation and economic revitalization in the city of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $10,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1355-08.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement with Kamm’s Corners Development Corporation for the West
Park Population Demographic Trend
Analysis Study Project through the
use of Ward 21 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with the Kamm’s Corners Development Corporation for the West Park
Population Demographic Study Project for the public purpose of examining the changing social economic
demographic population in the West
Park neighborhood area in the city
of Cleveland through the use of
Ward
21
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $3,656 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall

The City Record
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1358-08.
By Council Member Pierce Scott.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Latvian Cultural Garden Committee to stretch banners at the Latvian Cultural Garden in Rockefeller
Park, for the period from August 18,
2008 to September 17, inclusive, to
celebrate One World Day.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue
a permit to the Latvian Cultural
Garden Committee to install, maintain and remove banners at the Latvian Cultural Garden in Rockefeller
Park, for the period from August 18,
2008 to September 17, 2008, inclusive.
Said banner shall be approved by
the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1359-08.
By Council Member Zone.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Urban Community School to stretch
banners at West 48th to West 50th

1789

23
off Lorain, for the period from September 9, 2008 to October 8, 2008,
inclusive,
publicizing
their
40th
anniversary.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the Department of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue
a
permit
to
Urban
Community
School to install, maintain and
remove banners at West 48th to
West 50th off Lorain, for the period
from September 9, 2008 to October 8,
2008, inclusive. Said banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Ord. No. 1360-08.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency ordinance to add
the name William (Sonny) Harris
Road as a secondary name to Stearn
Road.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
1976, the name William (Sonny)
Harris shall be added as a secondary name to Stearn Road.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

24
Ord. No. 1362-08.
By Council Member Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Clerk of Council to enter
into an agreement with Louise Laffitte for professional services to
assist with legislative and policy
research for Cleveland City Council.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to enter into an
agreement with Louise Laffitte for
professional services to assist with
legislative and policy research for
Cleveland City Council. This agreement shall be entered into as of
August 25, 2008 and shall terminate
February 27, 2009. The agreement
shall be certified for $12,960.00 from
fund numbers 632000-01-010100.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1356-08.
By Council Members Santiago,
Cleveland, Sweeney, Zone, Kelley,
White, Brancatelli, Keane, Howse,
Mitchell, Turner, Brady, Coats, Cummins and Reed.
An emergency resolution urging
the Ohio State legislature to support
HB 196, that would provide an
income tax credit investment in
motion pictures produced in Ohio
and further urging swift passage of
such legislation.
Whereas, in May, 2007, State Representative Tom Patton introduced
legislation that would create up to
a 25% credit on money spent by
filmmakers who spend at least
$300,000 to make movies in Ohio; and
Whereas, currently, there is a $100
million dollar movie project that
Hollywood producers would like to
film in Cleveland, but will not be
able to unless state officials act
quickly to grant the producers tax
breaks; and
Whereas, producers of the film
“Torso” want to film part of the
movie in Cleveland, but a critical
piece of the movie’s budget involves
receiving tax breaks for a portion
of the money the studio spends to
make the movie; and
Whereas, because Ohio doesn’t
offer tax incentives to movie makers, the executives of this movie
will probably take the movie to
Michigan, which offers such tax
incentives; and

The City Record
Whereas, losing the filming of
this movie to the state of Michigan
will take countless jobs away from
Ohioans, and cause the state to lose
money it could have made had the
film crew been on location here for
3 to 4 months; and
Whereas, H.B. 196 appears stalled
in the state legislature, currently
sitting in the House Ways and
Means Committee, awaiting a hearing; and
Whereas,
the
film’s
producers
need an answer by December in
order
to
begin
shooting
movie
scenes in January or February; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Ohio State legislature to support
HB 196, that would provide an
income tax credit investment in
motion pictures produced in Ohio
and further urging swift passage of
such legislation.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is directed to transmit copies of
this resolution to all members of the
Ohio legislature.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1357-08.
By Council Member Conwell.
An emergency resolution proclaiming the second Thursday of September Ovarian Cancer Awareness Day.
Whereas, September is Ovarian
Cancer Awareness Month; and
Whereas, ovarian cancer, known
as the “silent killer”, is often difficult to detect; and
Whereas, Lift Every Voice “Mary’s
Fight”, with special guest speaker
Dr. Linda Bradley, was held in
Cleveland City Hall on September 4,
2008 to increase ovarian cancer
awareness; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby the second Thursday of September Ovarian Cancer Awareness Day.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force

1790

September 10, 2008
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1361-08.
By Council Member Conwell and
Santiago.
An emergency resolution encouraging
the
Cleveland
Municipal
School District to change the name
of Patrick Henry Middle School at
11901
Durant
Avenue,
Cleveland
Ohio 44108 to “Stephanie Tubbs
Jones K-8 School.”
Whereas, Stephanie Tubbs Jones
was a graduate of Cleveland Public
Schools; and
Whereas, during her years in the
House of Representatives, Congresswoman Tubbs Jones strongly advocated to invest in young people by
adequately funding public schools;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health, or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby encourages the Cleveland Municipal School District to change the
name
of
Patrick
Henry
Middle
School at 11901 Durant Avenue,
Cleveland Ohio 44108 to “Stephanie
Tubbs Jones K-8 School.”
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
copies of this resolution to Eugene
Sanders, members of the Cleveland
School Board, and Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1363-08.
By Council Members Reed, Cleveland, Brancatelli, Cimperman, Brady,
Turner, Mitchell and Santiago.
An emergency resolution encouraging the General Assembly of the
State of Ohio to pass a bill to designate State Route 422/ Kinsman
Road/Chagrin
Boulevard
as
the
“Stephanie Tubbs Jones Memorial
Boulevard.”
Whereas, Stephanie Tubbs Jones
(1949-2008) was elected to the Ohio
House of Representatives in 1998,
succeeding U.S. Rep. Louis Stokes,
and served into her sixth term in
Congress; and
Whereas, Stephanie Tubbs Jones’
life was filled with many “firsts”:
first African-American woman to
serve as Common Pleas judge in

September 10, 2008
Ohio, first to serve as Cuyahoga
County prosecutor, first to represent
Ohio in Congress; and
Whereas, Stephanie Tubbs Jones
was raised and educated in Cleveland, graduating from Collinwood
High School, and earning a bachelor’s degree in social work and a
juris doctorate degree from Case
Western Reserve University; and
Whereas, Congresswoman Tubbs
Jones’ congressional career had a
profound effect on State Route
422/Kinsman Road/Chagrin Boulevard; and
Whereas, Congresswoman Tubbs
Jones secured 11 million in Issue 2
federal funding to reconstruct State
Route 422/Kinsman Road from East
93rd Street to East 154th Street in
the largest road construction project
in the City of Cleveland before the
Euclid Corridor project; and
Whereas, Congresswoman Tubbs
Jones co-chaired the Issue 14 campaign that brought 1.4 billion in
school
construction
dollars
to
rebuild schools in Cleveland, including a portion that rebuilt A.J. Rickoff School on State Route 422/Kinsman Road and 47th Street; and
Whereas, Congresswoman Tubbs
Jones supported the Hope 6 Department of Housing and Urban Development
tax
credit
project
that
rebuilt the 48 unit senior housing
Union Court Apartments between
State Route 422/Kinsman Road and
Union Road; and
Whereas, Congresswoman Tubbs
Jones secured funding for subsidized housing redevelopment of former
Longwood
Apartments
into
Arbor Park Village on State Route
422/Kinsman Road; and
Whereas, Congresswoman Tubbs
Jones continued the tradition of the
11th Congressional District parade
started
by
Congressman
Lewis
Stokes that parades down State
Route 422/Kinsman Road from East
146th Street to Luke Easter Park
every Labor Day; and
Whereas, this Council requests that
the State of Ohio General Assembly
draft a bill to enact a section of the
Revised Code to designate State
Route 422/Kinsman Road/Chagrin
Boulevard
the
“Stephanie
Tubbs
Jones Memorial Boulevard.”
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby encourages the General Assembly of the State of Ohio to pass a
bill
to
designate
State
Route
422/Kinsman Road/Chagrin Boulevard as the “Stephanie Tubbs Jones
Memorial Boulevard.”
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
two certified copies of this resolution to the General Assembly of the
State of Ohio, Ohio House of Representatives, Governor Strickland, and
Mayor Jackson.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and

The City Record
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1364-08.
By Council Member Cimperman.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of stock of a D5
and D6 Liquor Permit to 727 Bolivar
Road and Patio.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of stock of a D5 and D6 Liquor
Permit at 727 Bolivar Road and
Patio, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 1792372; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of stock of a D5 and D6 Liquor Permit at CRK Enterprises, Inc., DBA
Gateway Sports Bar, 727 Bolivar
Road and Patio, Cleveland, Ohio
44115, Permanent Number 1792372,
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies

1791

25
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1365-08.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
4142 Rocky River Drive.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Rocky River
Supermarket, LLC, 4142 Rocky River
Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent Number 7361046; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Rocky River Supermarket, LLC, 4142 Rocky River
Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent Number 7361046; and re-

26
quests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1366-08.
By Council Member Keane.
An emergency resolution objecting to a New C1 Liquor Permit at
4163 Rocky River Drive.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a New
C1 Liquor Permit at Raja International, Inc., DBA EZ Mart Food
Store,
4163
Rocky
River
Drive,
Cleveland, Ohio 44135, Permanent
Number 71788020005; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of

The City Record
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a New C1
Liquor Permit at Raja International, Inc., DBA EZ Mart Food Store,
4163 Rocky River Drive, Cleveland,
Ohio
44135,
Permanent
Number
71788020005; and requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions of Section
4303.26 of the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1367-08.
By Council Member Polensek.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 788
East 200th Street, and repealing
Resolution No. 1058-08, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 788
East 200th Street by Resolution No.
1058-08 adopted by the Council on
July 2, 2008; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal based upon a cooperation agreement by and between City Councilmember Michael D. Polensek and
Applicant Kawaljit Kaur, President
of Ash Kirat Corporation; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Ash Kirat
Corporation, DBA Convenient Food
Mart #3-030, 788 East 200th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44119, Permanent
Number 0292783 be and the same is
hereby withdrawn and Resolution
No. 1058-08, containing such objection, be and the same is hereby
repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force

1792

September 10, 2008
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1368-08.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 9619
Anderson Road, and repealing Resolution No. 1213-08, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 9619
Anderson Road, 1st floor by Resolution No. 1213-08 adopted by the Council on August 6, 2008; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Venez,
Inc., DBA Sun Light Foods, 9619
Anderson Road, 1st floor, Cleveland,
Ohio
44105,
Permanent
Number
9246294 be and the same is hereby
withdrawn and Resolution No. 121308, containing such objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1369-08.
By Council Member Reed.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit at 3643
East 116th Street, and repealing
Resolution No. 1215-08, objecting to
said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 3643
East 116th Street by Resolution No.
1215-08 adopted by the Council on
August 6, 2008; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of

September 10, 2008
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C2
and C2X Liquor Permit to Rana
Quraan, Inc., DBA Nadia’s, 3643 East
116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105,
Permanent Number 7184705 be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution No. 1215-08, containing
such objection, be and the same is
hereby repealed and that this Council consents to the immediate renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1370-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 Liquor Permit at 3238 West
44th Street, and repealing Resolution No. 1045-08, objecting to said
renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
a C1 Liquor Permit to 3238 West
44th Street by Resolution No. 1045-08
adopted by the Council on July 2,
2008; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to a C1
Liquor Permit to A & I, Inc., DBA
Rite Choice Market, 3238 West 44th
Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, Permanent Number 0010247 be and the
same is hereby withdrawn and Resolution No. 1045-08, containing such
objection, be and the same is hereby repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate renewal
thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.

The City Record
Res. No. 1371-08.
By Council Member Santiago.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objections to the transfer of
ownership of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit at 3353 West 44th Street, and
repealing Resolution Nos. 1244-08 and
1223-08, objecting to said transfer.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Dalyah,
Inc., DBA Storer Deli, 3353 West
44th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
Permanent No. 1905468, by Resolution Nos. 1244-08 and 1223-08 adopted
by the Council on August 6, 2008;
and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objections to the above
transfer and consents to said transfer; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objections to a C1
and C2 Liquor Permit to Dalyah,
Inc., DBA Storer Deli, 3353 West
44th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44109,
Permanent Number 1905468 be and
the same is hereby withdrawn and
Resolution Nos. 1244-08 and 1223-08,
containing such objections, be and
the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate transfer thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1372-08.
By Council Member White.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of Liquor License
of a D5 Liquor Permit to 9102 Aetna
Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Department of Liquor
Control of an application for a transfer of Liquor License of a D5 Liquor
Permit from J R D T, Ltd., DBA M
& M Lounge, 3616 East 131st Street,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
4182903 to Tyson Mitchell, 9102
Aetna Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permanent Number 6061800; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and

1793

27
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to a transfer
of Liquor License of a D5 Liquor
Permit from J R D T, Ltd., DBA M
& M Lounge, 3616 East 131st Street,
1st floor and basement, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
4182903 to Tyson Mitchell, 9102
Aetna Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44102,
Permanent
Number
6061800
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
Res. No. 1373-08.
By Council Member Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 2892
East 116th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified
by the Department of Liquor Control
of an application for the transfer of
ownership of a C2 and C2X Liquor
Permit from H N S Grocery, Inc.,
DBA Foodtown Supermarket, 2892

28
East 116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44120, Permanent Number 3471866 to
OM Rudra, Inc., DBA Foodtown
Supermarket, 2892 East 116th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44120, Permanent
Number 6547027; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from H N S Grocery,
Inc., DBA Foodtown Supermarket,
2892 East 116th Street, Cleveland,
Ohio
44120,
Permanent
Number
3471866 to OM Rudra, Inc., DBA
Foodtown Supermarket, 2892 East
116th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44120,
Permanent
Number
6547027;
and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules, Charter,
and statutory provisions and place
on final adoption.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 1167-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into one or more contracts with
internet providers to supply the City
of Cleveland buildings, excluding
City Council offices, with high-speed
digital data access to the Internet,
for a period up to five years; and to
enter into a non-exclusive subscriber
services agreement with the selected internet provider.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In the title, lines 4 and 5, in Section 1, lines 2 and 3, and in Section
2, line 4, strike “, excluding City
Council offices,”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1168-08.
By Council Member Sweeney (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to pay
as Moral Claims the sums opposite
the names of the claimants.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
20. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 20.
Nays 0.
MOTION
By Council Member Brady, seconded by Council Member Johnson
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Member Sabra
Pierce Scott, be and is hereby
authorized.
MOTION
The Council Meeting adjourned at
8:45 p.m. to meet on Monday, September 15, 2008, at 7:00 p.m. in the
Council Chambers.

Patricia J. Britt
City Clerk, Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measure will be on
its final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

1794

September 10, 2008
BOARD OF CONTROL

September 3, 2008
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, September 3,
2008, at 10:30 a.m. with Director Triozzi presiding.
Present: Directors Triozzi, Dumas,
Acting
Directors
Withers,
Szabo,
Directors Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox,
Rush, Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Director Guzman.
Others: James Hardy, Commissioner, Purchases and Supplies.
Debra Linn Talley, Director, Office
of Equal Opportunity.
On motions, the following resolutions were adopted, except as may
be otherwise noted:
Resolution No. 428-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that under the authority of Ordinance No. 1036-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 8, 2007, Kubra Data Transfer Ltd. is selected from a list of
firms determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director
of Public Utilities as the firm to be
employed by contract to provide
professional services necessary for
the Electronic Bill Presentment
and Payment, for a period not
exceeding two years, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Utilities is authorized to enter into a contract with
Kubra Data Transfer Ltd. based
upon its proposal dated November 6,
2007, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law, shall
provide for furnishing of professional services described in the proposal, for an aggregate fee not
exceeding $170,000.00, and shall contain such additional provisions as
the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.
Resolution No. 429-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of HD Supply Waterworks, LTD for an estimated quantity
of
pipe
repair
couplings
(Group B), items 1-11, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one
year, starting upon the later of execution of the contract or the day
following expiration of the currently effective contract for the
goods or services, received on July
2, 2008, under the authority of Section 129.25 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland Ohio, 1976,

September 10, 2008
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$85,318.51 (Net 30), is affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 182291
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $20,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.
Resolution No. 430-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of United Survey, Inc. for the
public improvement of rehabilitation
and relining sewers at various locations, base bid all items including a
ten percent (10%) contingency allowance, for the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public
Utilities, received on July 16, 2008,
under
the
authority
of
Section
129.292 of Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, upon a unit
basis for the improvement to be performed as ordered during the period
of one (1) year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract, at
the unit prices set forth in the bid,
which on the basis of the estimated
work to be done would amount to
$649,715.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest responsible bid, and
the Director of Public Utilities is
requested to enter into a requirement contract for the improvement,
which contract shall provide for the
initial performance of the following
work:
Requisition No. 170809
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $200,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the contractor
will perform so much of the balance of the work as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the requirement contract, whether
the same shall be less than the
total estimate of work to be performed under the contract or shall
exceed the same by not more than
ten percent.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
United Survey, Inc. for the abovementioned public improvement by
requirement contract is approved:

The City Record
SUBCONTRACTOR

Cook Paving &
Construction Co.,
Inc.

CSB/MBE/FBE
WORK

CSB/M
$180,000.00 (27.00%)

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.
Resolution No. 431-08.
Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Boyas Excavating Inc. for
an estimated quantity of the disposal of debris at landfills, Item 1,
for the various divisions of the Department of Public Utilities, for a
period of two years, starting upon
the later of execution of the contract or the day following expiration
of the currently effective contract
for the goods or services, received
on July 9, 2008 under the authority
of Ordinance No. 344-08, passed April
7, 2008, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
$880,000.00 (0%, 0 Days), is affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is requested to enter into a
requirement contract for the commodities, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract of the following:
Requisition Nos. 182290 and 170810
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sums of $45,000.00
and $50,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for the commodities,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.
Resolution No. 432-08.
By Interim Director Withers.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
all bids received on July 9, 2008, for
disposal of debris at landfills, items
3, 4, and 5, for the Divisions of
Water, Cleveland Public Power and
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, under the
authority of Ordinance No. 344-08,
passed April 7, 2008, are rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.

1795

29
Resolution No. 433-08.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 687-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
June 9, 2008, ARCADIS U.S., Inc. is
selected upon the nomination of the
Director of Public Service from a
list of qualified engineering consultants or firms of such consultants
determined to be available after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Public Service as the
firm to be employed by contract to
supplement the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City to obtain the engineering
services necessary for Broadway
Avenue Rehabilitation from IR-77
Overpass to Cleveland East Corporation Line.
Be it further resolved that the
Director of Public Service is authorized to enter into a written contract
with ARCADIS U.S., Inc based on its
proposal dated June 6, 2008, as
amended by its revised cost proposal
dated August 8, 2008, provided that
the compensation to be paid shall
not exceed $600,000.00. The agreement authorized hereby shall be prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such other provisions
as the Director of Law deems necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subconsultants by ARCADIS U.S., Inc.
for the above authorized contract is
approved:
Prime Engineering
CSB/MBE — $108,764.00 — (18.13%)
KS Associates, Inc.
CSB/FBE — $73,200.00 — (12.20%)
Wilbur Smith Associates
$158,125.00 — (26.35%)
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.
Resolution No. 434-08.
By Director Wasik.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of R.W. Clark Company, Inc.,
for the public improvement for the
City Hall elevators modernization,
base bid, for the Department of Public Service, received on August 7,
2008, under the authority of Ordinance No. 485-07, passed June 11,
2007, for a gross price for the
improvement
in
the
aggregate
amount of $2,015,513, is affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bidder, and the Director of Public
Service is authorized to enter into
contract for the improvement with
the bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
R.W. Clark Company, Inc. is approved:

The City Record

30
Subcontractor
CSB/MBE/FBE
WBE Electric
CSB/FBE

Post Painting
CSB/FBE

Kone Elevator
Other

Amount
Percentage

$

$

155,500
7.69%

15,500
.769%

$1,202,000
59.64%

Cohara Construction
Other

$

24,000
1.19%

Cleveland Marble
Other

$

28,500
1.41%

R.V. Mechanical
Other

$

39,000
1.93%

Lee Brothers Plastering
Other

contract for the services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of the
contract of the following:
Requisition No. 178824
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $25,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractor is approved:
NAME

DOLLAR AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

J and S, MBE

$

16,000
.79%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.
Resolution No. 435-08.
By Director Wasik.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that all bids
received on May 30, 2007, for the
public improvement of the Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance Harvard Yards Service Facility, for the
Department of Public Service, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 69206, passed on June 12, 2006, by the
Council of the City of Cleveland, are
rejected.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.
Resolution No. 436-08.
By Director Cox.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Yardmaster, Inc. for an estimated quantity of Urban Forestry Tree
Planting Services for the base items
4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 28, 29,
30, 34, 37, 39, 40, 41, 50 and 51 for
the Division of Park Maintenance
and
Properties,
Department
of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
for a period not to exceed one year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on July
24, 2008, under the authority of Section 181.101, Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio 1976, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to $101,162.00, is affirmed and approved as the lowest
and best bid, and the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
requested to enter into requirement

September 10, 2008

$25,000.00
25%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.
Resolution No. 437-08.
By Director Cox.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the
bid of Aaron Landscaping for an
estimated
quantity
of
Urban
Forestry Tree Planting Services for
the base items 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 12,
13, 14, 15, 17, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27,
31, 32, 33, 35, 36, 38, 42, 43, 44, 45,
46, 47, 48 and 49 for the Division of
Park Maintenance and Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, for a period not to
exceed one year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on July 24, 2008, under the
authority of Section 181.101, Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, which on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to
$79,582.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is requested to enter into
requirement contract for the services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 178825
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $50,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the services, whether more or less than
the estimated quantity, as may be
ordered under subsequent requisitions separately certified against
the contract.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.

1796

Resolution No. 438-08.
By Director Cox.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Van Curen Services, Inc. for an
estimated
quantity
of
Urban
Forestry Tree Removal Services (all
items) for the Division of Park
Maintenance and Properties, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, for a period not to
exceed one year beginning with the
date of execution of a contract,
received on July 24, 2008, under the
authority of Section 181.101, Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity
would
amount
to
$244,448.00, is affirmed and approved
as the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is requested to enter into
requirement contract for the services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of the contract of the following:
Requisition No. 178823
which shall be certified against the
contract in the sum of $200,000.00.
The requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for the services,
whether more or less than the estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against the contract.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractor is approved:
NAME

DOLLAR AMOUNT
PERCENTAGE

Cooper Landscaping,
MBE

Integrated Business
Supplies, FBE

Samsel Supply, FBE

$24,520.00
10%

$ 4,000.00
2%
$ 2,500.00
1%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.
Resolution No. 439-08.
By Director Cox.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Envirocom Construction
Company, for the public improvement of the Morgana Athletic Complex, base bid, for the Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties,
received on January 16, 2007, under
the authority of Ordinance No. 215103, passed December 15, 2003, and
amended by Ordinance No. 1308-04,
passed August 11, 2004, and Ordinance No. 2365-04, passed January
24, 2005, and Ordinance No. 1057-07,
passed August 8, 2007, for a gross
price for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of $3,383,000.00, is
affirmed and approved as the low-

The City Record

September 10, 2008
est responsible bid, and the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
is authorized to enter into contract
for the improvement with the bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the
following
subcontractors
by
Envirocom Construction Company,
Inc. is approved:
Subcontractor
MBE/FBE
Lawrence Harris
Construction

Amount
Percentage

$650,000.00
19.21%

Landmark Plumbing

$ 10,000.00
29%

Collinwood Shale & Brick

$ 65,000.00
1.92%

Heiberger Paving

$ 95,000.00
2.80%

Barbicas Paving

$270,000.00
7.98%

General Sports Paving

$333,000.00
9.84%

Great Northern Fence

$ 90,000.00
2.66%

21st Century Concrete

$240,000.00
7.09%

London Road Electric

$160,000.00
4.73%

Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.
Resolution No. 440-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according to the provisions of Chapter
5722 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 128-01-105 located at Grandview
Avenue in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas,
Julius
Harris,
abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop the parcel for yard expansion; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;

3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with Julius Harris for
the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 128-01-105 located at
Grandview Avenue, according to the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.
Resolution No. 441-08.
By Director Rush.
Whereas, under Ordinance No.
2076-76 passed October 25, 1976, the
City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) according to the provisions of Chapter
5722 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, under the Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 133-02-024 located at East 75th
Street in Ward 12; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Cleveland Housing Network, Inc., abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop the parcel for
driveway and garage; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 12 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of the
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
under Section 183.021 of Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized, when directed by the Director of Community
Development, and the Mayor is requested to execute an Official Deed
for and on behalf of the City of
Cleveland, with Cleveland Housing

1797

31
Network, Inc. for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 13302-024 located at East 75th Street,
according to the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of the program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is determined to
be not less than the Fair Market
value of said parcel for uses according to the Program.
Yeas: Directors Triozzi, Acting
Directors Withers, Szabo, Directors
Wasik, Carroll, Flask, Cox, Rush,
Hutchinson, Nichols, Fumich and
Rybka.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor Jackson and Directors Dumas and Guzman.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers. Thereafter, eligible lists will be established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
REYNALDO GALINDO,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2008
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 08-161: 3304 Archwood
Avenue (Ward 15)
John Hayes, owner, appeals to
erect a 40' x 36' frame, three car
garage with second floor space on
a 62' x 165' corner parcel in a
Two-Family District on the northwest corner of Archwood Avenue
and West 33rd Street; the maximum
area allowed is 1,171 square feet
and 1,584 square feet is proposed

The City Record

32
for the first floor plus 1,296 square
feet for the second floor, and
equals an area overage of 1,708.75
square feet contrary to Section
337.23(7)(a);
with
a
proposed
height of 25 feet that exceeds the
limit of 15 feet for an accessory
building height in a residence district, according to Section 353.05 of
the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 08-162: 1595 West 116th
Street (Ward 18)
Pedro
Rodriguez,
owner,
and
Sherry Johns, tenant, appeal to
establish use as a Type A day care
in an existing one family dwelling
located in a Semi-Industry District
on the east side of West 116th
Street; subject to the provisions of
Section 345.03(b), no building or
Institutional H Occupancy Classification shall be located within 200
feet of the boundary line of an
adjoining General or Unrestricted
Industry District and no existing
building within 200 feet of such
boundary line shall be converted or
altered to any such use, except that
the Board of Zoning Appeals may,
in specific instances, permit such
conversion or alteration when the
development of the immediately
surrounding area is essentially residential in character.
Calendar No. 08-165: 231 East 156th
Street (Ward 11)
Northeast
Shores
Development
Corporation, owner, appeals change
use of an existing four unit apartment building and retail space to a
six unit condominium building and
erect a six car garage, proposed to
be on a consolidated corner parcel,
located in a Local Retail Business
District on the southeast corner of
East
156th
Street
and
Pythias
Avenue at 231 East 156th Street; subject to the provisions of Section
359.01, the existing building is legal
but nonconforming, having no setback in the required front yard and
no side yard setback where 8 feet is
required and a rear yard of 8.4 feet
contrary to 20 feet; and the existing
gross floor area of 6,088 square feet
exceeds the allowed maximum of
4,500 square feet; with the existing
driveway being on the property line
and not 15 feet from it. The proposed substitution of a nonconforming use requires the Board of Zoning Appeals approval; and the new
parking garage for a residence
building is proposed at a distance of
6 inches, where 18 inches from the
property line is required, as stated
in Section 337.23 of the Codified
Ordinances.
10:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 08-52: 12510 Triskett
Road (Ward 19)
A Request for Rehearing was
approved on September 2, 2008, and
Triskett Road Storage LLC, owner,
and Clear Channel Outdoor, tenant,
appeal to change an existing billboard to a digital electronic billboard unit, located on an acreage
parcel in a Semi-Industry District on
the north side of Triskett Road at
12510 Triskett Road; contrary to a
denied permit application on February 29, 2008 and the required approval from the City Planning Com-

September 10, 2008

mission for replacement/reconstruction of an existing nonconforming
billboard, according to the provisions of Section 350.10(1) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2008
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, September 8, 2008, the following appeals
were heard by the Board.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 08-155: 4585 Hilland
Road, a.k.a. 4631 Broadale Avenue
Joseph Bucha appealed to erect a
6 foot high wooden fence in the
actual side street and front yards
of a corner parcel in an A1 OneFamily District; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 08-156: 4493 West 14th
Street
Lucille Cline appealed to erect a
handicap ramp at the front of a single family dwelling in an A1 OneFamily District; subject to condition.
Calendar No. 08-158: 5504 Harvard
Avenue
Paul Colletti appealed to expand
a patio at the front of an existing
tavern and install a 6 foot high
board on board fence and brick
planter bed and a 4 foot 6 inch
high steel fence in a General
Retail Business District; subject to
condition.
Calendar No. 08-67: 9201 Hillock
Avenue
Cleveland Metropolitan School District appealed to construct a new
Kindergarten through Eighth Grade
Charles Lake Elementary School in
Two-Family and Multi-Family Districts.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 08-157: 11219 Nelson
Avenue
Georgia Ross-Hepburn appealed to
expand the use of a two family
dwelling by adding a Type A day
care in a Two-Family District.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 08-142: 3303 East 55th
Street
Shelia Rose appealed from a
Notice of Violation issued by the
Building and Housing Department.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

Calendar No. 08-148: 1500 Brookpark
Road
Martina Family Properties appealed to erect a warehouse and
office building and associated parking in a Semi-Industry District.

1798

The following appeal was Postponed:
None.
The following appeals heard by
the Board on September 2, 2008 were
adopted and approved on September
8, 2008.
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 08-150: 3908 Denison
Avenue
Eugene J. Giammarco, owner, and
Sherry Perry, tenant, appealed to
install a 15' x 13' fence enclosed
patio in the front of a building in a
Local Retail Business District.
Calendar No. 08-83: 15606 St. Clair
Avenue
Jimmie Poole, owner, appealed to
change use from office and one
dwelling unit to a day care for after
school activities for 15 children
ranging in age from 5 to 15 years
in a Local Retail business District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 08-152: 2412 Malden
Road
Sheryl Parks appealed to change
use of a single family dwelling to a
day care in a One-Family District.
Calendar No. 08-153: 12612 Beachwood Avenue
Malikah Joseph appealed to expand a single family dwelling to
include a Type A day care in a OneFamily District.
Calendar No. 08-147: 6020 Fir Avenue
John Farrier appealed to replace
and extend the front porch of a
house in a Two-Family District.
The following appeal heard by the
Board on July 28, 2008 was adopted
and approved:
The following
proved:

appeal

was

Ap-

Calendar No. 08-135: 2527 West 25th
Street
Klein-Barabas, Ltd, LLC, owner,
and Mario Nemr, tenant, appealed to
establish use as a nightclub/tavern
with entertainment in an existing
two-story building and consolidated
parcels, located in split zoning
between Semi-Industry and TwoFamily Districts on the northeast
corner of West 25th Street and Potter Court at 2527 West 25th Street;
subject to conditions.
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
Re: Report of the Meeting of
September 3, 2008
As required by the provisions of
Section 3103.20(2) of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,

September 10, 2008
Ohio 1976, the following brief of
action of the subject meeting is
given for publication in The City
Record:
* * *
Docket A-82-08.
RE: Appeal of FPT Cleveland
Real Estate LLC/FPT Cleveland
LLC, Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 8500
Aetna Road from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — UNAUTHORIZED USE
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated June
29, 2006, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date, to be rescheduled for two (2) weeks (September
17, 2008).
* * *
Docket A-93-08.
RE: Appeal of FPT Cleveland
Real Estate LLC/FPT Cleveland
LLC, Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 8554
Aetna Road from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — UNAUTHORIZED USE
of the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated May
19, 2008, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date, to be rescheduled for two (2) weeks (September
17, 2008).

The City Record
ership, and that the evidence presented by the Appellant indicates
that they are not the responsible
party and should be removed from
the Violation Notice. Motion so in
order. Motioned by Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.
* * *
Docket A-110-08.
RE: Appeal of Jeanette St. Clair
and Barbara Carswell, Owners of
the One Dwelling Unit Single Family Residence Two and One/half
Story Frame Property located on the
premises known as 11813 Union
Avenue from a 30 DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER — MS of the Director of the Department of Building
and Housing, dated April 22, 2008,
requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and the Ohio Building Code
(OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to DENY the
appeal and to REMAND the property at 11813 Union Avenue to the
Department of Building and Housing for supervision and any required
further action. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Saunders and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab. Nays: None. Absent:
Mr. Bradley.

33
located on the premises known as
1308 East 75th Place from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — NO PERMIT of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated June
17, 2008, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled for September
17, 2008.
* * *
Docket A-133-08.
RE: Appeal of Arts Collinwood,
Inc., Owner of the A-2 Assembly —
Nite Clubs, Restaurants One Story
Masonry Property located on the
premises known as 15603 Waterloo
Road from a NOTICE OF VIOLATION — NO PERMIT/NO INSPECTION of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
dated July 11, 2008, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to accept the construction without inspection, noting
that a two (2) year warranty on the
framing system should disclose any
issues that are apparent and also
noting that all of the permits have
been obtained. Motion so in order.
Motioned by Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr. Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.

* * *
* * *

* * *
Docket A-94-08.
RE: Appeal of FPT Cleveland
Real Estate LLC/FPT Cleveland
LLC, Owner of the Property located
on the premises known as 8552
Aetna Road from a NOTICE OF
VIOLATION
—
UNAUTHORIZED
USE of the Director of the Department of Building and Housing,
dated May 19, 2008, requiring compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
No action this date, to be rescheduled for two (2) weeks (September
17, 2008).

Docket A-111-08.
RE: Appeal of Countrywide Home
Loans, Owner of the One Dwelling
unit single Family Residence One
and One/half Story Frame Property
located on the premises known as
11733 Longmead Avenue from a 30
DAY CONDEMNATION ORDER of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated June
13, 2008, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
Docket A-111-08 has been POSTPONED; to be rescheduled for October 1, 2008.
* * *

* * *
Docket A-105-08.
RE: Appeal of Estate of Millie
Davis, Owner of the One Dwelling
Unit Single Family Residence Two
and One/half Story Frame Property
located on the premises known as
2956 east 114th Street from a 30 DAY
CONDEMNATION ORDER of the
Director of the Department of Building and Housing, dated June 09,
2008, requiring compliance with the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to find that the
Violation Notice was issued properly; the property is REMANDED at
this time to the Department of
Building and Housing for supervision
and
any
required
further
action, noting that the City has
agreed to review the issues and the
documents to establish proper own-

Docket A-115-08.
RE: Appeal of Virginia Williams,
Owner of the two Dwelling units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property
located on the premises known as
1320 East 75th Place from a NOTICE
OF VIOLATION — NO PERMIT of
the Director of the Department of
Building and Housing, dated June
17, 2008, requiring compliance with
the Codified Ordinances of the City
of Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC).
No action this date, the docket
will be rescheduled for September
17, 2008.
* * *
Docket A-116-08.
RE: Appeal of Virginia Williams,
Owner of the two Dwelling units
Two-Family Residence Two and
One/half
Story
Frame
Property

1799

Docket A-134-08.
RE: Appeal of Barbara Scott,
Owner of the Property located on
the premises known as 2301 Broadview Road from an ADJUDICATION
ORDER of the Director of the
Department of Building and Housing, dated July 30, 2008, requiring
compliance with the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC).
BE IT RESOLVED, a motion is in
order at this time to grant the variance and permit the ramp to be built
as proposed, noting that there is a
ten (10) foot easement represented
on the adjacent property, and that
should a building be built violating
the ten (10) foot easement rule, this
property owner must make the
required code modifications to comply with the code at that time.
Motion so in order. Motioned by Mr.
Saunders
and
seconded
by
Mr.
Bradley.
Yeas: Messrs, Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
APPROVAL OF RESOLUTIONS
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Gallagher and seconded by Mr.
Bradley for Approval and Adoption
of the Resolutions as presented by
the Secretary for the following
Dockets respectively, subject to the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland and the Ohio Building
Code (OBC):
A-99-08—Oscar J. Waters Jr.
A-107-08—LNR Investments.
A-108-08—Ferchill Group.

The City Record

34
A-109-08—NovaStar Mortgage, Inc.
A-114-08—Larry W. Miller.
A-125-08—University Hospitals Case
Medical Center.
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Separate motions were entered by
Mr. Saab and seconded by Mr. Saunders for Approval and Adoption of
the Minutes as presented by the Secretary, subject to the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland and
the Ohio Building Code (OBC):
August 20, 2008
Yeas: Messrs. Denk, Saunders, Gallagher, Saab, Bradley. Nays: None.
* * *
Secretary

PUBLIC NOTICE

fice of Equal Opportunity (“OEO”)
prior to the date of bid opening or
submission of proposals or as specified by the Director. Failure to comply with the business enterprise
code or with representations made
on these forms may result in cancellation of the contract or other
civil or criminal penalties.”
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2008
File No. 197-08 — Criminal and Civil
Filing System, for the Cleveland
Municipal Court, Department of
Finance, as authorized by Section
No. 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2008 AT 2:00 P.M.,
THE
CLEVELAND
MUNICIPAL
CLERK OF COURTS, JUSTICE
CENTER, 1200 ONTARIO STREET,
LEVEL 2, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
September 3, 2008 and September 10, 2008

NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS

For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the Of-

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2008
File No. 194-08 — Industrial Paper
Products and Cloth Wipes, for the
Various Divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, as
authorized by Section No. 181.101
of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2008 AT
2:00
P.M.,
CLEVELAND
CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASES
AND SUPPLIES, ROOM 128, 601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
File No. 195-08 — Plumbing Supplies
and Equipment, for the Various
Divisions
of
City
Government,
Department of Finance, as authorized by Section No. 181.101 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 16, 2008 AT 10:00
A.M., CLEVELAND CITY HALL,
DIVISION OF PURCHASES AND
SUPPLIES, ROOM 128, 601 LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
File No. 196-08 — Messenger Services,
for the Various Divisions of City
Government, Department of Finance,
as
authorized
by
Section
No.
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2008 AT
10:00
A.M.,
CLEVELAND CITY
HALL, DIVISION OF PURCHASES

1800

September 10, 2008
AND SUPPLIES, ROOM 128, 601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
File No. 197-08 — Rental of Various
Heavy Duty Equipment, Rigging
Services and Crane and Hoist Inspection and Maintenance (Groups
A-B) (ReBid), for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1690-07,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland November 12, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 11, 2008 AT 10:30
A.M., THE CARL B. STOKES
PUBLIC UTILITIES BUILDING,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
September 3, 2008 and September 10, 2008
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2008
File No. 199-08 — Labor and Materials Necessary to Test, Fuel, Maintain and Repair Off-Road Fossil
Fuel
Electrical,
Pumping
and
Backup Computer Statems: Part 1:
Uninterruptible Power Supply Systems, Backup Generators, Components, Appurtenances, and Specialized Services, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1869-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland
December 10, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2008
AT 2:30 P.M., THE CARL B.
STOKES
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING, 4TH FLOOR ATRIUM
CONFERENCE ROOM, 1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO
44114.
September 3, 2008 and September 10, 2008
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2008
File No. 200-08 — Mayor’s Office Complex Carpeting (Re-Bid), for the
Division of Architecture, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 485-07,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, June 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 18, 2008 AT 11:00
A.M., THE CITY OF CLEVELAND, CITY HALL, DIVISION OF
ARCHITECTURE, ROOM 517, 601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.

September 10, 2008
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
File No. 201-08 — Cleveland Convention Center Steam Leak Repair, for
the Division of Cleveland Convention Center and Stadium, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, as authorized by Ordinance No. 818-08, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
June 9, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER
18,
2008 AT 9:00 A.M., THE CLEVELAND CONVENTION CENTER, 500
LAKESIDE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44114.
PLEASE
MEET
AT
THE
LAKESIDE
AVENUE ARCH.

The City Record
No. 181.101 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 23, 2008 AT 11:30
A.M., THE DIVISION OF WASTE
COLLECTION, 5600 CARNEGIE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO
44103.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
File No. 205-08 — Purchase of Various Steering Gear and Related
Parts, for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 686-07, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland June 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
MONDAY,
SEPTEMBER 22, 2008 AT 11:00
A.M., THE DIVISION OF MOTOR
VEHICLE MAINTENANCE, BUILDING #1, 4150 EAST 49TH STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44105.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERRENCE.

September 10, 2008 and September 17, 2008
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2008
File No. 202-08 — Cory Recreation
Center Floor Repair and Dewatering (Re-Bid), for the Division of
Architecture, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 922-07, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
July 11, 2007.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
FIFTY DOLLARS ($50.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2008
AT 2:00 P.M., THE CORY RECREATION CENTER, 10510 DREXEL
AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114.
File No. 203-08 — Repair and Maintenance to Overhead Exhaust Fans at
Ridge Road Transfer, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Section No.
181.101 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID
MEETING,
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2008 AT
10:30 A.M., THE DIVISION OF
WASTE
COLLECTION,
5600
CARNEGIE
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44103.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERENCE.
File No. 204-08 — Clean and Maintain
Scale Pits at the Ridge Road Scale
House and Ridge Road Transfer,
for the Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal, Department of Public
Service, as authorized by Section

September 10, 2008 and September 17, 2008
WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 8, 2008
File No. 206-08 — Aerial Moving
Map System, for the Division of
Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No.
1008-08, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland July 2, 2008.
THERE WILL BE A NON-MANDATORY PRE-BID MEETING, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2008 AT
3:00
P.M.,
THE
EMERGENCY
OPERATIONS CENTER, CONFERENCE ROOM 306, 205 WEST SAINT
CLAIR
AVENUE,
CLEVELAND,
OHIO 44113.
File No. 207-08 — Residential Sound
Insulation
Program
Phase
II
Continuation, Contract A-08, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance Nos. 93095, 469-98 and 327-2000, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 19, 1995, May 18, 1998
and June 22, 2000, respectively.
THERE WILL BE A REFUNDABLE
FEE FOR PLANS/SPECIFICATIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF ONE
HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100.00) IN
THE FORM OF A CASHIER’S
CHECK AND/OR MONEY ORDER (NO COMPANY CHECKS,
NO
CASH
AND
NO
CREDIT
CARDS WILL BE ACCEPTED).
THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY
PRE-BID MEETING, TUESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 23, 2008 AT 10:00
A.M., THE OFFICES OF C & S
ENGINEERS, INC., ONE INTERNATIONAL PLACE, 204445 EMERALD
PARKWAY,
SUITE
100,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135.
THE CITY OF CLEVELAND WILL
NOT CONSIDER THE BID OF
ANYONE WHO DOES NOT ATTEND A MANDATORY PRE-BID
CONFERRENCE.
September 10, 2008 and September 17, 2008

1801

35
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Ord. No. 1316-08.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Kelley, Johnson and Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of a proposal
to amend and repeal various sections of the Charter of the City of
Cleveland relating to the City election process.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that it must be certified
to the election authorities immediately in order for the question to
appear at the general election to be
held on November 4, 2008, and providing for the usual daily operation
of municipal departments; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes the submission to the electors
of the City of Cleveland at a general election to be held at the usual
places of voting in the City of Cleveland on Tuesday, November 4, 2008,
of a proposal to amend the Charter
of the City of Cleveland by amending existing Sections 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 11,
13, 15, 23-1, 24, 50, 51, 57, and 66 to
read as follows and, further, to
repeal existing Sections 9, 15-1, 23-2,
23-3, 23-4, 23-5, 23-6, and 23-7 as follows:
§ 3 Elections
A general election for the choice
of elective officers provided for in
this Charter shall be held on the
first Tuesday after the first Monday
in November every four years commencing November 1981. Elections
so held shall be known as regular
Municipal elections. The other elections shall be held as may be required by law, or provided for in
this Charter.
§ 4 Nominations
Candidates for all offices to be
voted for at any regular Municipal
election under the provisions of this
Charter shall be nominated at a nonpartisan primary election to be held
on the second Tuesday in September
prior to the regular Municipal election. Candidates for all offices to be
voted for at any other Municipal
election under the provisions of this
Charter shall be nominated at a nonpartisan primary election to be held
on the eighth Tuesday prior to the
other Municipal elections.
§ 6 Petition Form
The signatures to a nominating
petition need not all be appended to
one paper, but on each separate
paper the circulator shall indicate
the number of signatures contained
on the petition, and shall sign a
statement made under penalty of
election falsification that the circulator witnesses the affixing of every
signature, that all signers were to
the best of the circulator’s knowledge and belief qualified to sign,
and that every signature is to the
best of the circulator’s knowledge

The City Record

36
and belief the signature of the person whose name it purports to be.
Each signer of a petition shall sign
his or her name in ink or indelible
pencil, and shall place on the petition after his or her name the signer’s place of residence by street and
number, or other description sufficient to identify the place, and give
the date when the signer’s signature
was made.
§ 7
Candidacy and Nominating
Petition Papers
The form of statement of candidacy and nominating petition papers
shall be substantially as follows:
STATEMENT OF CANDIDACY
I, ______________ (Name of Candidate),
the
undersigned,
hereby
declare under penalty of election
falsification that my voting residence is in ______ precinct of Ward
______ of the City of Cleveland; that
my voting residence is ____________
(Street and Number); and that I am
a qualified elector in the precinct in
which my voting residence is located. I hereby declare that I desire to
be a candidate for nomination to the
office of ________________ at the primary election to be held on the ___
day of _____________, ______.
Dated this ____ day of __________,
______.
________________________________
(Signature of candidate)
The statement of candidacy shall
contain the penalty for election falsification as prescribed by the general law of the State.
NOMINATING PETITION
We, the undersigned, qualified
electors of the City of Cleveland (or
____ ward of the City of Cleveland),
State of Ohio, whose voting residence is at the street address, ward,
and precinct set opposite our names,
request that _______________ (Name
of Candidate) be placed upon the
primary election ballot as a candidate for nomination for the office of
_____________ at the primary election to be held in the City (or the
ward)
on
the
________
day
of
____________, __________.
Signature
Street Number
Ward
Precinct
Date of Signing
Must use address on file with the
board of elections)
_______________________________________
_______________________________________
_______________________________________
_______________________ (Name of
Circulator
of
Petition),
declares
under penalty of election falsification that the circulator of the petition is a qualified elector of the
state of Ohio and resides at the
address appearing below the circulator’s signature; that the circulator
is the circulator of the foregoing
petition paper containing _________
(Number) signatures; that the circulator witnessed the affixing of
every signature; that all signers
were to the best of the circulator’s
knowledge and belief qualified to
sign; and that every signature is to
the best of the circulator’s knowledge and belief the signature of the

person whose signature it purports
to be.
_______________________________________
(Signature of Circulator)
_______________________________________
_______________________________________
(Address of Circulator)
The nominating petition shall contain the penalty for election falsification as prescribed by the general
law of the State.
§ 8
Filing and Verification of
Petitions
All separate papers comprising a
statement of candidacy and nominating petition shall be assembled
and filed with the election authorities as one instrument no later than
four p.m. on the seventy-fifth day
prior to the day of the primary election. Within ten days after the filing of a nominating petition the
election authorities shall notify the
person named therein as a candidate
whether the petition is found to be
signed by the required number of
qualified electors. If insufficient,
the person named therein as candidate may, amend the petition by filing within five (5) days after notification of insufficiency by the election authorities, additional petition
papers. Within five (5) days after
the filing of the additional petition
papers, the election authorities shall
notify the person named therein as
candidate whether the amended petition is found to be signed by the
required number of qualified electors.
§ 9 Acceptance of Nomination —
Repealed
§ 11 Ballots
All ballots used in elections held
under authority of this Charter shall
be without party marks or designations. Ballots used for the nomination or election of candidates shall
contain a complete list of the offices
to be filled, and the names of candidates for each office shall be
arranged under the title thereof.
Voters shall record their choices in
the manner prescribed by the general law of the State.
§ 13 Write-in Spaces on Ballots
A write-in space shall be provided
on the ballot in the manner prescribed by general law of the State.
§ 15 General Laws to Apply
All elections provided for by this
Charter, whether for the choice of
officers or the submission of questions to the voters, shall be conducted by the election authorities
prescribed by general law of the
State; and the provisions of the general election laws of the State shall
apply to all the elections except as
provision is otherwise made by this
Charter, and except further that the
Council may, by ordinance, provide
measures to promote and insure the
purity and integrity of the ballot,
and against corrupt practices in
elections.
§ 15-1 Balloting by Armed Forces
— Repealed

1802

September 10, 2008
§ 23-1 Campaign Financing Laws
The Council shall provide by ordinance for limitations on campaign
contributions made to the campaign
committees for all candidates in all
primary, regular and special elections for the office of Mayor and the
office of member of Council. The
Council shall by ordinance provide
penalties for exceeding the campaign contribution limitations and
an
appeal
process
for
persons
alleged to have violated the campaign contribution limitations.
§ 23-2
Comprehensive Disclosure
Rules — Repealed
§ 23-3
Fair Campaign
Commission — Repealed
§ 23-4
§ 23-5
pealed

Finance

Penalties—Repealed
Appeals

Process

—

Re-

§ 23-6
Review of Campaign
Financing Laws—Repealed
§ 23-7 Passage of Legislation —
Repealed
§ 24
Powers, Terms and Vacancies
The legislative powers of the City,
except as reserved to the people by
this Charter, shall be vested in a
Council, each member of which shall
be elected from a separate ward.
Members of Council shall be elected
for a term of four years and shall
serve until their successors are chosen and have qualified.
If at any time, the office of a
member is vacant by reason of nonelection, death, resignation, removal
of residence from the ward represented or from any other cause
whatsoever, except when the vacancy is caused by a recall petition, the
vacancy shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired term; provided,
however, that if the vacancy occurs
at any time which is more than two
years before the next regular Municipal election, the person selected by
the Council to fill the vacancy shall
hold office until the person’s successor is elected at special municipal elections to be held in accordance with this section and is qualified. If a general election is to be
in the City held upon a date not less
than 160 days nor more than one
year after the occurrence of the
vacancy, the special municipal election shall be held at the general
election and a special primary election to nominate candidates for the
vacancy shall be held on the eighth
Tuesday prior to the general election. Otherwise, the aforesaid special municipal elections shall be
held on the first Tuesday after one
hundred days from the day on which
the vacancy first occurs, at which
time the primary election shall be
held, and on the eighth Tuesday following the primary election, at
which time the final special municipal election shall be held, and all
the provisions in this Charter contained as to nomination and election
of candidates for member of Council at regular Municipal elections
shall apply to the special municipal
elections. The person so elected
shall hold office for the unexpired

September 10, 2008
portion of the term in which the
vacancy in the office of member of
Council occurred and until the person’s successor is elected and qualified and shall assume office immediately upon election and qualification.
§ 50 Signing Petition
Each signer of a petition shall
sign his or her name in ink or
indelible pencil, and shall place on
the petition paper after the signer’s
name his or her place of residence
by street and number, or by other
description sufficient to identify the
place, and give the date when the
signature was made. The signatures
to any petition paper need not all be
appended to one paper but on each
separate paper the circulator shall
indicate the number of signatures
contained on the petition, and shall
sign a statement made under penalty of election falsification that the
circulator witnesses the affixing of
every signature, that all signers
were to the best of the circulator’s
knowledge and belief qualified to
sign, and that every signature is to
the best of the circulator’s knowledge and belief the signature of the
person whose name it purports to
be.
§ 51 Filing Petition
All papers comprising a petition
shall be assembled and filed with
the Clerk of the Council as one
instrument by no later than 4:00 p.m.
on a regular business day of the
office of the Clerk. Within ten (10)
days from the filing of a petition
the Clerk shall ascertain whether it
is signed by the required number of
qualified electors. Upon the completion of the Clerk’s examination the
Clerk shall endorse upon the petition a certificate of the result thereof.
§ 57 Ordinance Certification and
Submission for Vote
Upon receipt of the certificate and
certified copy of the proposed ordinance, the Clerk shall certify the
fact to the Council at its next regular meeting. If an election is to be
held not more than six months nor
less than sixty (60) days after the
receipt of the Clerks certificate by
the Council, the proposed ordinance
shall then be submitted to a vote of
the electors of the City. If no election is to be held within the time
aforesaid, the Council may provide
for submitting the proposed ordinance to the electors of the City at
a special election to be held not
sooner than sixty days after the
receipt of the Clerk’s certificate. If
a supplemental petition, signed by
five thousand (5,000) qualified electors, in addition to those who signed
the original petition, be filed with
the Clerk asking that the proposed
ordinance be submitted to the voters
at a time indicated in such petition,
the Council shall provide for a special election at the time. The sufficiency of any such supplemental
petition shall be determined, and it
may be amended in the manner provided for original petitions for
proposing ordinances to the Council.
If no other provision be made as to
the time of submitting a proposed
ordinance to a vote of the electors

The City Record
of the City, it shall be submitted at
the next election.
§ 66
Form of Ballots; Election
Results
Ordinances, or parts thereof, submitted to vote of the electors in
accordance with the initiative and
referendum provisions of this Charter shall be submitted by ballot title.
There shall appear upon the official
ballot a ballot title, which may be
distinct from the legal title of the
proposed or referred ordinances, and
which shall be a clear, concise statement, without argument or prejudice, descriptive of the substance of
the ordinance, or part thereof. The
ballot title shall be prepared by the
committee of petitioners if for an
initiated ordinance, and in all other
cases by the Director of Law. The
ballots used in voting upon the ordinance, or part thereof, shall have
below the ballot title thereof the
two
following
propositions,
one
above the other, in the order indicated:
“For
the
ordinance”
and
“Against the ordinance.” The elector
of the City shall record the elector’s
vote for or against the ordinance or
part of an ordinance, if part only of
an ordinance is submitted in the
manner prescribed by general law.
Any number of ordinances or parts
thereof, may be voted upon at the
same election and may be submitted
on the same ballot, but the ballot
used for voting thereon shall be for
that purpose only. If a majority of
the electors of the City voting on
any ordinance, submitted in accordance with the initiative provisions
of this Charter, shall vote in favor
thereof, it shall thereupon become
an ordinance of the City. If an ordinance or part of an ordinance, submitted in accordance with the referendum provisions of this Charter,
be not approved by a majority of
those voting thereon, it shall be
deemed repealed.
Section 2. That the foregoing proposed amendment to the Charter, on
receiving at least a majority of the
votes cast at the November 4, 2008
general election, shall become effective immediately on its adoption.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to promptly forward a certified copy of this ordinance to the Board of Elections of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County shall
cause an appropriate notice to be
given of the election to be held on
November 4, 2008, on the foregoing
amendment to the Charter of this
City and otherwise to provide for
the election in the manner provided
by the general laws of the State of
Ohio.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to cause the full
text of the proposed amendment to
the Charter to be published once a
week for two consecutive weeks in
a newspaper published in the City
of Cleveland, with the first publication to be made at least fifteen days
prior to the general election to be
held on November 4, 2008, as provided in Article XVIII, Section 9 of
the Constitution of the State of Ohio,
Section 731.211 of the Revised Code,
and Section 200 of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland.

1803

37
Section 6. That the ballot submitting the question of the adoption of
the amendment shall read as follows:
PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND

A majority affirmative vote is necessary for passage.
Shall various sections of the Charter of the City of Cleveland related
to the City’s election process be
amended or repealed to recognize
that City elections are held every
four years; to hold the primary election prior to a regular municipal
election on the second Tuesday in
September and the eighth Tuesday
prior to other municipal elections; to
eliminate the circulator’s affidavit
and otherwise conform candidacy
and nominating petition papers and
initiative petition forms to state
law; to fix the filing deadline at no
later than four p.m. on the seventyfifth day prior to the primary election day; to eliminate acceptance of
candidacy; to provide for ballot
forms and write-in spaces as prescribed by state law; to eliminate
the requirement that Council determine election devices and balloting
by armed forces; to require that
Council provide campaign contribution limitations, penalties and an
appeal process for violating the limitations,
and
eliminate
the
remaining campaign finance provisions in the Charter; to provide a
process to fill vacancies in the Council when more than two years exists
before the next regular municipal
election and to place this election on
a general election day if one occurs
not less than 160 days nor more than
one year after the vacancy occurs or
otherwise at a special election with
the primary to occur on the first
Tuesday after 100 days from the
vacancy; to fix the filing deadline
for initiative petition papers by no
later than 4:00 p.m. on a regular
business day of the Council Clerk;
and to fix the election on an initiated ordinance at not less than 60
days after certification of the petition signatures by the Clerk?
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 2, 2008.
Effective September 4, 2008.

Ord. No. 1317-08.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Kelley, Johnson and Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of a proposal
to amend Sections 115-1 and 115-2 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland
relating to the Office of Professional Standards and the Police Review
Board.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation

38
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that it must be certified
to the election authorities immediately in order for the question to
appear at the general election to be
held on November 4, 2008, and providing for the usual daily operation
of municipal departments; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes the submission to the electors
of the City of Cleveland at a general election to be held at the usual
places of voting in the City of Cleveland on Tuesday, November 4, 2008,
of a proposal to amend the Charter
of the City of Cleveland by amending existing Sections 115-1 and 115.2
to read as follows:
§ 115-1
Office of Professional
Standards
There shall be in the office of the
executive head of the police force
an Office of Professional Standards,
consisting of one or more investigators appointed by the executive
head of the police force, an administrator, and the Police Review
Board. The executive head of the
police force may designate an officer of the police force to administer
the Office of Professional Standards,
or an employee appointed to the
position of Professional Standards
Administrator in conformity with
the civil service provisions of this
Charter.
§ 115-2 Police Review Board
The Police Review Board shall
consist of seven (7) members appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council. The five
members of the Police Review
Board holding the office as of the
effective date of this section may
continue in office for the remainder of their terms. Two additional
members shall be appointed for
terms commencing on August 8,
2009. Terms of office for members
of the Police Review Board shall
be for four years. Vacancies shall
be filled in the same manner as
original appointments for the unexpired term.
The executive head of the police
force may remove any member of
the Board, upon notice and hearing,
for neglect of duty or malfeasance
in office.
Members of the Board shall receive compensation as may be established by the Council.
The Mayor shall designate annually one member of the board to
serve as its chair.
The Board shall appoint personnel
as its staff as it deems necessary.
Failure of the Council to act on a
mayoral appointment within thirty
(30) days of its submission shall
constitute approval of the appointment.
Section 2. That the foregoing proposed amendment to the Charter, on
receiving at least a majority of the
votes cast at the November 4, 2008
general election, shall become effective immediately on its adoption.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to promptly forward a certified copy of this ordinance to the Board of Elections of
Cuyahoga County.

The City Record
Section 4. That the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County shall
cause an appropriate notice to be
given of the election to be held on
November 4, 2008, on the foregoing
amendment to the Charter of this
City and otherwise to provide for
the election in the manner provided
by the general laws of the State of
Ohio.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to cause the full
text of the proposed amendment to
the Charter to be published once a
week for two consecutive weeks in
a newspaper published in the City
of Cleveland, with the first publication to be made at least fifteen days
prior to the general election to be
held on November 4, 2008, as provided in Article XVIII, Section 9 of
the Constitution of the State of Ohio,
Section 731.211 of the Revised Code,
and Section 200 of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 6. That the ballot submitting the question of the adoption of
the amendment shall read as follows:
PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND

A majority affirmative vote is necessary for passage.
Shall Sections 115-1 and 115-2 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland
be amended to authorize the appointment of two additional members to the Police Review Board
with terms commencing on August
8, 2009, and the appointment of civilian investigators to the Office of
Professional Standards?
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 2, 2008.
Effective September 4, 2008.

Ord. No. 1318-08.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Kelley, Johnson and Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of a proposal
to amend Sections 108 and 167 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland
relating to authorization of contracts and public improvements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that it must be certified
to the election authorities immediately in order for the question to
appear at the general election to be
held on November 4, 2008, and providing for the usual daily operation
of municipal departments; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes the submission to the electors
of the City of Cleveland at a general election to be held at the usual

1804

September 10, 2008
places of voting in the City of Cleveland on Tuesday, November 4, 2008,
of a proposal to amend the Charter
of the City of Cleveland by amending existing Sections 108 and 167 to
read as follows:
§ 108 Authorization of Contracts
(a) All contracts involving any
expenditure in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) shall first
be authorized and directed by ordinance of Council, provided that the
Council may increase the expenditure limit contained in this section
above fifty thousand dollars ($50,000)
by passage of an ordinance receiving a two-thirds affirmative vote of
the Council. Except as provided in
divisions (b) and (c) of this section,
when so authorized and directed, the
director of the department involved
shall make a written contract with
the lowest and best bidder after
advertisement once a week for two
consecutive
weeks
in
the
City
Record.
(b) When authorized by ordinance
passed by the Council and in accordance with the applicable laws, competitive bidding and advertisement
are not required for the City to enter
into contracts for the purchase of
supplies, services, materials and
equipment through employment of
cooperative purchase arrangements
with other governmental agencies.
(c) When authorized by ordinance
passed by the Council, competitive
bidding and advertisement are not
required for the City to enter into
contracts for any purpose for which
contracts may be awarded by a
municipal corporation without advertisement or competitive bidding
under the general laws of the State
of Ohio.
(d) There shall be no splitting of
orders to avoid the effect of this section, and any contract made contrary to or in evasion of the provisions of this section shall be illegal
and void.
§ 167 Public Improvements
Public improvements of all kinds
may be made by the appropriate
department, either by direct employment of the necessary labor and the
purchase of the necessary supplies
and materials, with separate accounting as to each improvement so
made, or by contract duly let to the
lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding, either for a gross
price, or upon a unit basis for the
improvement, or by contract containing a guaranteed maximum and
stipulating that the City shall pay
within such maximum the cost of
labor and materials, plus a fixed
percentage of profit to the contractor. Public improvements may also
be made by combining the design
professional contract with the public improvement contract, in a manner similar to a design-build or engineer, procure, construct (EPC) contract, and be awarded on the basis
of the best proposal, taking into consideration
the
engineering
and
design, the construction method(s),
the proposed design and construction costs, the total life-cycle costs,
the qualifications of the proposed
design professional and the construction firm(s), and the other
objectives of the project.

September 10, 2008
The Council shall by ordinance
determine by which of the foregoing
methods any improvement shall be
made. Contracts may provide a
bonus per day for completion of the
contract prior to a specified date,
and liquidated damages to the City
to be exacted in like sum for every
day of delay beyond a specified
date.
Section 2. That the foregoing proposed amendment to the Charter, on
receiving at least a majority of the
votes cast at the November 4, 2008
general election, shall become effective immediately on its adoption.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to promptly forward a certified copy of this ordinance to the Board of Elections of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County shall
cause an appropriate notice to be
given of the election to be held on
November 4, 2008, on the foregoing
amendment to the Charter of this
City and otherwise to provide for
the election in the manner provided
by the general laws of the State of
Ohio.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to cause the full
text of the proposed amendment to
the Charter to be published once a
week for two consecutive weeks in
a newspaper published in the City
of Cleveland, with the first publication to be made at least fifteen days
prior to the general election to be
held on November 4, 2008, as provided in Article XVIII, Section 9 of
the Constitution of the State of Ohio,
Section 731.211 of the Revised Code,
and Section 200 of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 6. That the ballot submitting the question of the adoption of
the amendment shall read as follows:
PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND

A majority affirmative vote is necessary for passage.
Shall Sections 108 and 167 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland be
amended to provide that contracts in
excess of $50,000 must be authorized
by ordinance of Council; that the
Council may increase this amount
by a two-thirds affirmative vote;
that competitive bidding is not
required for cooperative purchase
agreements with other governmental agencies and when the Council
so authorizes for purposes that the
state authorizes for other cities; and
that public improvements may be
made by combining the design professional contract with the public
improvement contract and be awarded on the basis of the best proposal?
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 2, 2008.
Effective September 4, 2008.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1319-08.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Kelley, Johnson and Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of a proposal
to amend Sections 121, 126, 130 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland
and to enact new Section 131-1 relating to Cleveland’s civil service system.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that it must be certified
to the election authorities immediately in order for the question to
appear at the general election to be
held on November 4, 2008, and providing for the usual daily operation
of municipal departments; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes the submission to the electors
of the City of Cleveland at a general election to be held at the usual
places of voting in the City of Cleveland on Tuesday, November 4, 2008,
of a proposal to amend the Charter
of the City of Cleveland by amending existing Sections 121, 126 and
130 and enacting new Section 131-1
to read as follows:
§ 121 Appeal to Civil Service Commission
Any person in the classified service, who is suspended for more
than three (3) days, demoted, or dismissed from the service of the City,
may file a written appeal from the
decision to the Civil Service Commission within ten days from and
after the date of the suspension,
demotion, or dismissal. The director
of the department involved, upon
notice from the Commission of the
appeal, shall transmit to the Commission a copy of the charges and
proceedings. The Commission shall
set the appeal for hearing within
thirty days from and after the filing of the same with the Commission, and may affirm, disaffirm or
modify the judgment of the director,
and the judgment of the Commission
in the matter shall be final.
§ 126 Division into Classified and
Unclassified Service
The civil service of the City is
hereby divided into the unclassified
and classified service.
1. The unclassified service shall
include:
(a) All officers elected by the people.
(b) All directors and assistant
directors of departments.
(c) The Clerk of Council.
(d) The Chief of Police, four
Deputy Chiefs of Police, and twelve
Commanders of Police.
(e) The members of all boards or
commissions appointed by the Mayor
and of advisory boards appointed by
the director of a department.
(f) The secretary to the mayor
and one secretary for each director
of a department.
(g) Executive Assistants to the
Mayor and Special Assistants to the
Mayor, provided, however, that there
shall be no restrictions as to their
duties or assignments.

1805

39
(h) Temporary employees for a
period not to exceed ninety (90)
days and seasonal employees for a
period not to exceed one hundred
and eighty (180) days.
(i) Students enrolled in a recognized educational institution and in
a course of training in preparation
for an administrative or professional career in the public service and
employed upon the recommendation
of the official in charge of personnel administration as student aides
for training purposes without limitation as to assignment or duties.
(j) School crossing guards.
(k) Members of the auxiliary
police force.
2. The classified service shall
comprise all positions not specifically included by this charter in the
unclassified service. There shall be
in the classified service three classes to be known as the competitive
class, the noncompetitive class and
the general labor class.
(a) The competitive class shall
include all positions and employment for which it is practicable to
determine the merit and fitness of
applicants by competitive tests.
(b)
The
noncompetitive
class
shall include all positions requiring
specialized training, or skills requiring certifications or licensure,
and qualifications of a scientific,
business, managerial, professional
or educational character, as may be
determined by the Commission. The
fitness of applicants in the non-competitive class shall be based on the
applicant’s knowledge, skills and
abilities relative to the qualifications for the position.
(c) The general labor class shall
include semi-skilled and unskilled
labor positions for which it is impractical to give competitive tests.
The positions shall be filled from
a registration list established and
maintained by the Commission. The
Commission shall register applicants for positions in the general
labor class either continuously or
at times as there are vacancies to
be filled, provided, however, that
no registration may be accepted
until public notice of the intention
to so accept registrations shall be
made by the Commission. Priority
of registration shall determine an
applicant’s place on the registration list, provided the applicant
meets required standards as to age,
citizenship, physical fitness and
residence as established by the
Commission.
§ 130
Eligible Lists; Temporary
Appointments
Eligible lists created by the Commission shall remain in force not
longer than two years. In the
absence of an appropriate eligible
list, any place may be filled temporarily, without test, for the period
limited by the civil service rules,
but not exceeding one year. During
such period the Commission shall
hold the necessary tests for filling
any such place permanently. With
the consent of the Commission, persons may be temporarily employed
for transitory work without test, but
no such employment shall continue
for more than sixty days, or be
renewed.

40
§ 131-1 Employees Hired Without
Test before August 6, 2008
Employees in the classified service who were hired in their current
position on or before August 6, 2008
and who serve in that position for
90 consecutive days or longer without test by the Commission, who
meet the qualifications for that position, and who have an employment
record that is satisfactory shall
become regular employees in that
position without test. Any employee
who becomes a regular employee in
his or her position under this section is not eligible to apply for any
other position in the classified service without test and compliance
with all other provisions of the laws
of the City of Cleveland and rules
promulgated by the Commission.
Section 2. That the foregoing proposed amendment to the Charter, on
receiving at least a majority of the
votes cast at the November 4, 2008
general election, shall become effective immediately on its adoption.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to promptly forward a certified copy of this ordinance to the Board of Elections of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County shall
cause an appropriate notice to be
given of the election to be held on
November 4, 2008, on the foregoing
amendment to the Charter of this
City and otherwise to provide for
the election in the manner provided
by the general laws of the State of
Ohio.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to cause the full
text of the proposed amendment to
the Charter to be published once a
week for two consecutive weeks in
a newspaper published in the City
of Cleveland, with the first publication to be made at least fifteen days
prior to the general election to be
held on November 4, 2008, as provided in Article XVIII, Section 9 of
the Constitution of the State of Ohio,
Section 731.211 of the Revised Code,
and Section 200 of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 6. That the ballot submitting the question of the adoption of
the amendment shall read as follows:
PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND
A majority affirmative vote is necessary for passage.
Shall various sections of the Charter of the City of Cleveland related
to civil service be amended to (1)
allow appeals of employees to the
Civil Service Commission from suspensions of more than 3 days and
authorize the Commission to set the
appeal for hearing within 30 days;
(2) provide that the unclassified service shall include assistant directors
of departments, executive and special assistants to the Mayor, temporary employees for a period not to
exceed 90 days, seasonal employees
for a period not to exceed 180, and
students enrolled in any recognized
educational institution; (3) provide
that the non-competitive class shall
include all positions requiring specialized training, or skills requiring
certifications or licensure, and qual-

The City Record
ifications of a scientific, business,
managerial, professional or educational character, as determined by
the Commission and that fitness of
applicants in the non-competitive
class shall be based on the applicant’s knowledge, skills and abilities relative to the qualifications for
the position; (4) rename the ordinary unskilled labor class as the
general labor class that includes
semi-skilled
and
unskilled
labor
positions for which it is impractical
to give competitive tests and that
vacancies in the general labor class
shall be filled from the registration
list containing qualified applicants
provided to the appointing authority by the Commission; (5) provide
that in the absence of an eligible
list, any position in the competitive
service may be filled temporarily,
without test, for a period not to
exceed one year; and (6) grandfather employees hired in their current position on or before August 6,
2008, who have served for 90 consecutive days without test, who
meet the qualifications for their
position, and who have a satisfactory employment record as regular
employees in their position without
test, provided that any grandfathered employee is not eligible to
apply for any other position in the
classified service without test and
compliance with all other applicable
civil service laws and rules?
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 2, 2008.
Effective September 4, 2008.

Ord. No. 1320-08.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Kelley, Johnson and Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of a proposal
to amend Sections 36, 59 and 64 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland
relating to the effective date of legislation and referendum.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that it must be certified
to the election authorities immediately in order for the question to
appear at the general election to be
held on November 4, 2008, and providing for the usual daily operation
of municipal departments; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council authorizes the submission to the electors
of the City of Cleveland at a general election to be held at the usual
places of voting in the City of Cleveland on Tuesday, November 4, 2008,
of a proposal to amend the Charter
of the City of Cleveland by amending existing Sections 36, 59 and 64
to read as follows:

1806

September 10, 2008
§ 36 Emergency Measures
All
ordinances
and
resolutions
shall be in effect from and after thirty (30) days from the date of their
passage by the Council except as otherwise provided in this Charter. The
Council may by a two-thirds vote of
the members elected to the Council,
pass emergency measures to take
effect at the time indicated in the
emergency measure. An emergency
measure is an ordinance or resolution for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
or safety, or providing for the usual
daily
operation
of
a
Municipal
department, in which the emergency
is set forth and defined in a preamble. Ordinances appropriating money
may be passed as emergency measures, but no measure making a
grant, renewal or extension of a
franchise or other special privilege,
or regulating the rate to be charged
for its services by any public utility,
shall ever be so passed.
§ 59 The Referendum
No ordinance passed by the Council, unless it be an emergency measure, shall go into effect until thirty (30) days after its final passage
by the Council. If at any time within said thirty (30) days, a petition
signed by electors equal in number
to ten percent (10%) of the total
vote cast at the last preceding regular Municipal election of the City
be filed with the Clerk of the Council requesting that the ordinance, or
any
specified
part
thereof,
be
repealed or submitted to a vote of
the electors, it shall not become
operative until the steps indicated
herein have been taken. The petition shall be prepared and filed in
the manner and form prescribed in
the foregoing sections of this Charter for an initiative petition for an
ordinance.
§ 64
Referendum on Emergency
Measures
Ordinances passed as emergency
measures for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health, or safety and providing
for the refinancing of bonds, notes
or other securities of the City shall
not
be
subject
to
referendum.
Otherwise,
emergency
measures
shall be subject to referendum in
like manner as other ordinances,
except that they shall go into
effect at the time indicated in the
ordinances. If, when submitted to a
vote of the electors of the City, an
emergency measure be not approved by a majority of those voting thereon, it shall be considered
repealed as regards any further
action thereunder; but the measure
so repealed shall be deemed sufficient authority for payment in
accordance with the ordinance, of
any expense incurred previous to
the referendum vote thereon.
Section 2. That the foregoing proposed amendment to the Charter, on
receiving at least a majority of the
votes cast at the November 4, 2008
general election, shall become effective immediately on its adoption.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to promptly forward a certified copy of this ordinance to the Board of Elections of
Cuyahoga County.

September 10, 2008
Section 4. That the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County shall
cause an appropriate notice to be
given of the election to be held on
November 4, 2008, on the foregoing
amendment to the Charter of this
City and otherwise to provide for
the election in the manner provided
by the general laws of the State of
Ohio.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to cause the full
text of the proposed amendment to
the Charter to be published once a
week for two consecutive weeks in
a newspaper published in the City
of Cleveland, with the first publication to be made at least fifteen days
prior to the general election to be
held on November 4, 2008, as provided in Article XVIII, Section 9 of
the Constitution of the State of Ohio,
Section 731.211 of the Revised Code,
and Section 200 of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 6. That the ballot submitting the question of the adoption of
the amendment shall read as follows:

The City Record
Section 1. That this Council authorizes the submission to the electors
of the City of Cleveland at a general election to be held at the usual
places of voting in the City of Cleveland on Tuesday, November 4, 2008,
of a proposal to amend the Charter
of the City of Cleveland by amending existing Sections 25 and 25-1 to
read as follows:
§ 25 Dividing the City into Wards
The Council not later than April
1, 2009, shall redivide the City into
wards based on the City’s population as of February 15, 2009 as
determined by estimated population
figures compiled by the U.S. Census Bureau or other reliable source
as determined by the Council as of
that date. The number of wards
shall be an odd number between a
maximum of 25 wards and a minimum of 11 wards using the following table that reflects a ratio of
one ward for every 25,000 people
based on the estimated population
figures:
If the City’s population is:

PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND
A majority affirmative vote is necessary for passage.
Shall Sections 36, 59 and 64 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland be
amended to provide that legislation
shall be in effect from and after
thirty days following passage, a referendum petition may be filed within the thirty-day period, and no referendum may be brought on ordinances passed as emergency measures for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health, or safety and providing for
the refinancing of bonds, notes or
other securities of the City?
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 2, 2008.
Effective September 4, 2008.

Ord. No. 1321-08.
By Council Members Cleveland,
Kelley, Johnson and Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the submission to the electors of
the City of Cleveland of a proposal
to amend Sections 25 and 25-1 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland
relating to dividing the City into
wards and reapportionment.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the immediate preservation of the
public peace, property, health or safety in that it must be certified to the
election authorities immediately in
order for the question to appear at
the general election to be held on
November 4, 2008, and providing for
the usual daily operation of municipal departments; now therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City shall be divided into the
following number of wards:
More than 575,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
575,000 or less but
more than 525,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

41
§ 25-1 Reapportionment of Wards
Commencing with the Federal census decennially taken in the closest
proximity to January 1, 2010, and
following each subsequent Federal
decennial census the Council within
sixty days after proclamation by the
Secretary of State stating the population of the cities of Ohio as determined by any such Federal census
shall reapportion the wards of the
City, provided however that if the
proclamation occurs in any year
when the City conducts a regular
Municipal election and the proclamation of the Secretary of State
occurs less than 120 days before the
date for filing nominating petitions
for the election under Charter Section 8, the reapportionment of wards
under this section shall not be effective for the regular Municipal election in the year of the proclamation
and shall be effective for the next
regular
Municipal
election
four
years thereafter and all subsequent
elections for City offices until the
next decennial Federal census. The
number of wards shall be an odd
number between a maximum of 25
wards and a minimum of 11 wards
using the following table that reflects a ratio of one ward for every
25,000 people based on the estimated population figure contained in
the proclamation of the Secretary of
State:
If the City’s population is:

525,000 or less but
more than 475,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

The City shall be divided into the
following number of wards:

475,000 or less but
more than 425,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

More than 575,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

425,000 or less but
more than 375,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

575,000 or less but
more than 525,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

375,000 or less but
more than 325,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

525,000 or less but
more than 475,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

325,000 or less but
more than 275,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

475,000 or less but
more than 425,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

275,000 or less . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

425,000 or less but
more than 375,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

The wards so formed shall be as
nearly equal in population as may
be fair and equitable, composed of
contiguous and compact territory,
and bounded by natural boundaries
or street lines. When any territory
is annexed to the City the Council
shall by ordinances declare it a part
of the adjacent ward or wards.
If the Council fails or neglects to
redivide the City into wards by
April 1, 2009, the Mayor shall within 7 days thereafter submit to Council the plan for redividing the City
into wards using the above table to
determine the number of wards,
which division plan of the Mayor
shall become effective until the next
decennial Federal census when the
wards shall be reapportioned as provided in Section 25-1.
The members of Council to be
elected under the terms herein shall
be elected at the regular Municipal
election on November 3, 2009, in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 3 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland. The division of the
City into wards existing at the time
of the adoption of this amendment
shall continue until changed as provided herein.

1807

375,000 or less but
more than 325,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
325,000 or less but
more than 275,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
275,000 or less . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
The wards so formed shall be as
nearly equal in population as may
be, composed of contiguous and compact territory, and bound by natural boundaries and street lines.
If the Council fails to reapportion
the wards within the sixty day
period herein provided, the Mayor
shall within fifteen business days
thereafter submit to Council a plan
for the reapportionment of the
wards. The Council shall within
ten business days after receiving
the Mayor’s plan, reapportion the
wards as herein provided. If the
Council does not reapportion the
wards within this latter ten business day period, the reapportionment plan of the Mayor shall
become effective until the next
decennial Federal census when the
wards shall be reapportioned as
herein provided.

The City Record

42
Section 2. That the foregoing proposed amendment to the Charter,
on receiving at least a majority of
the votes cast at the November 4,
2008 general election, shall become
effective immediately on its adoption.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to promptly forward a certified copy of this ordinance to the Board of Elections of
Cuyahoga County.
Section 4. That the Board of Elections of Cuyahoga County shall
cause an appropriate notice to be
given of the election to be held on
November 4, 2008, on the foregoing
amendment to the Charter of this
City and otherwise to provide for
the election in the manner provided
by the general laws of the State of
Ohio.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council is authorized to cause the full
text of the proposed amendment to
the Charter to be published once a
week for two consecutive weeks in
a newspaper published in the City
of Cleveland, with the first publication to be made at least fifteen days
prior to the general election to be
held on November 4, 2008, as provided in Article XVIII, Section 9 of
the Constitution of the State of Ohio,
Section 731.211 of the Revised Code,
and Section 200 of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 6. That the ballot submitting the question of the adoption of
the amendment shall read as follows:
PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT
CITY OF CLEVELAND
A majority affirmative vote is necessary for passage.

Shall Sections 25 and 25-1 of the
Charter of the City of Cleveland be
amended to provide that, by April
1, 2009, the Council shall redivide
the City into wards based on the
City’s population as of February 15,
2009 as determined by estimated
population figures compiled by the
U.S. Census Bureau or other reliable source as determined by the
Council; that the number of wards
shall be an odd number between a
maximum of 25 wards and a minimum of 11 wards using the table
contained
in
the
Charter
that
reflects a ratio of one ward for
every 25,000 people based on the
estimated population figure; that if
the Council does not act by that
date, the Mayor shall redivide the
City into wards within 7 days
thereafter; that, in the future after
each decennial Federal census, the
Council shall reapportion the City
into wards in the same manner to
determine the number of wards
based on the census figures, provided that if reapportionment occurs in any year when the City conducts a regular Municipal election
and the determination of the Census figures occurs less than 120
days before the filing of nominating petitions, then the reapportionment of wards shall be effective
for the next regular Municipal election in four years and subsequent
elections; and that the Council
shall act within 60 days of the
determination of the census figures
and if the Council does not act by
that date, the Mayor shall have 15
business days to reapportion the
City into wards?
Section 7. That this ordinance is
declared to be an emergency mea-

September 10, 2008
sure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed September 2, 2008.
Effective September 4, 2008.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS

Monday, September 8, 2008
2:00 p.m.
Finance Committee: Present: Sweeney, Chair; Brady, Turner, Pierce
Scott, Brancatelli, Zone, Westbrook,
Coats, White. Authorized Absence:
Cimperman, Vice Chair; Conwell.
Tuesday, September 9, 2008
9:30 a.m.
Community and Economic Development Committee: Present: Pierce
Scott, Chair; Brancatelli, Vice Chair;
Cummins, Coats, Westbrook, Brady,
Zone, Howse. Authorized Absence:
Cimperman.
Wednesday, September 10, 2008
10:00 a.m.
Public Safety Committee: Present:
Conwell, Chair; Brady, Vice Chair;
Mitchell, Polensek, Coats, Kelley,
Cummins, Turner, Santiago.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Agreements
Cleveland City Council — agreement for professional services — Louise Laffitte
(O 1362-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1790
E. 145th St., — Mount Pleasant NOW Development Corp. — Economic Development Dept. —
Kinsman Retail Center Project (Ward 3 NEF) (O 1354-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1789
Finance Director — contracts — internet providers to supply the City of Cleveland buildings
(excluding City Council offices) with high-speed internet / subscriber
services agreement (O 1167-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1794

Appropriations
Appropriations — ($3,600,000) of the Internal Service funds — ($ 2,300,000) of the
Enterprise Fund — ($92,338,811) of Debt Service funds (O 1325-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

Banners
Latvian Cultural Garden Committee — permit — Latvian Cultural Garden (Rockefeller Park) —
Aug. 18, 2008 — Sept. 17, 2008 — One World Day — Service Dept. (Ward 8)
(O 1358-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1789
Urban Community School — encroach into public right-of-way — Lorain Ave. (With 12 banners)
(Ward 14) (O 1335-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781
Urban Community School — permit — September 9, 2008 to October 8, 2008 — 40th anniversary —
Service Dept. (Ward 17) (O 1359-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1789

1808

September 10, 2008

The City Record

43

Board of Building Standards and Building Appeals
Adelbert Road, 2101, (Ward 9) — University Hospitals Case Medical Center, owner —
appeal adopted on 9/3/08 (Doc. A-125-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Aetna Road, 8500, (Ward 2) — FPT Cleveland Real Estate LLC/FPT Cleveland LLC, owner
appeal rescheduled to 9/17/08 on 9/3/08 (Doc. A-82-06) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Aetna Road, 8552, (Ward 2) — FPT Cleveland Real Estate LLC/FPT Cleveland LLC, owner
appeal rescheduled to 9/17/08 on 9/3/08 (Doc. A-94-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Aetna Road, 8554, (Ward 2) — FPT Cleveland Real Estate LLC/FPT Cleveland LLC, owner
appeal rescheduled to 9/17/08 on 9/3/08 (Doc. A-93-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadview Road, 2301, (Ward 15) — Barbara Scott, owner — appeal resolved on 9/3/08
(Doc. A-134-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 114th Street, 2956, (Ward 4) — Millie Davis, owner — appeal resolved on 9/3/08
(Doc. A-105-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 129th Street, 840, (Ward 9) — Oscar J. Waters, Jr., owner — appeal adopted on 9/3/08
(Doc. A-99-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 36th Street, 1385, (Ward 13) — Larry W. Miller, owner — appeal adopted on
9/3/08 (Doc. A-114-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 75th Place, 1308, (Ward 7) — Virginia Williams, owner — appeal rescheduled to
09/17/08 on 9/3/08 (Doc. A-116-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 75th Place, 1320, (Ward 7) — Virginia Williams, owner — appeal rescheduled to
09/17/08 on 9/3/08 (Doc. A-115-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ferris Avenue, 13302, (Ward 2) — NovaStar Mortgage, Inc., owner — appeal adopted on
9/3/08 (Doc. A-109-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Huron Road, 601, (Ward 13) — LNR Investments c/o Network Parking, owner —
appeal adopted on 9/3/08 (Doc. A-107-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Longmead Avenue, 11733, (Ward 20) — Countrywide Home Sales, owner —
appeal postponed to 10/01/08 on 9/3/08 (Doc. A-111-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Avenue, 1012, (Ward 13) — Ferchill Goup, owner — appeal adopted on 9/3/08
(Doc. A-108-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Avenue, 11813, (Ward 3) — Jeanette St. Clair and Barbara Carswell, owner —
appeal resolved on 9/3/08 (Doc. A-110-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Waterloo Road, 15603, (Ward 11) — Arts Cillinwood, Inc., owner — appeal resolved on
9/3/08 (Doc. A-133-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

...
—
...
—
...
—
...

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1799

Board of Control — City Hall
Elevators modernization — contract per Ord. 485-07 to R.W. Clark Company, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 434-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1795

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 75th Street (Ward 12) — PPN 133-02-024 — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(BOC Res. 441-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1797
Grandview Avenue (Ward 6) — PPN 128-01-105 — Julius Harris
(BOC Res. 440-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1797

Board of Control — Harvard Yards Service Center
Improvements — per Ord. 692-06 — all bids rejected — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 435-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 75th Street (Ward 12) — PPN 133-02-024 — Cleveland Housing Network, Inc.
(BOC Res. 441-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1797
Grandview Avenue (Ward 6) — PPN 128-01-105 — Julius Harris
(BOC Res. 440-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1797

Board of Control — Morgana Park
Athletic Complex improvements — contract per Ord. 2151-03, 1308-04, 2365-04, 1057-07
to Envirocom Construction Company, Inc. — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (BOC Res. 439-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Harvard Yards Service Facility improvements — per Ord. 692-06 — all bids rejected —
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 435-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796

1809

The City Record

44

September 10, 2008

Board of Control — Park Maintenance and Properties Division
Urban Forestry Tree Planting Services — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Yardmaster, Inc. — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 436-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796
Urban Forestry Tree Planting Services — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Aaron Landscaping — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 437-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796
Urban Forestry Tree Removal Services — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Van Curen Services, Inc. — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 438-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Morgana Athletic Complex improvements — contract per Ord. 2151-03,
1308-04, 2365-04, 1057-07 to Envirocom Construction Company, Inc.
(BOC Res. 439-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Forestry Tree Planting Services — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Yardmaster, Inc. — Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
(BOC Res. 436-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Forestry Tree Planting Services — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Aaron Landscaping — Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
(BOC Res. 437-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Forestry Tree Removal Services — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Van Curen Services, Inc. — Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
(BOC Res. 438-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Broadway Avenue rehabilitation engineering services (IR-77 to Cleveland east line) —
contract per Ord. 687-08 to ARCADIS U.S., Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 433-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1795
Electronic Bill Presentment and Payment system — contract per Ord. 1036-07 to
Kubra Data Transfer Ltd. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 428-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1794

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Elevators at City Hall modernization — contract per Ord. 485-07 to
R.W. Clark Company, Inc. — Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 434-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1795
Morgana Athletic Complex improvements — contract per Ord. 2151-03, 1308-04, 2365-04,
1057-07 to Envirocom Construction Company, Inc. — Dept. of Parks, Recreation
and Properties (BOC Res. 439-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796
Sewer, rehabilitation and relining — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.292 to United
Survey, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 430-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1795

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Broadway Avenue rehabilitation engineering services (IR-77 to
Cleveland east line) — contract per Ord. 687-08 to ARCADIS U.S.,
(BOC Res. 433-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elevators at City Hall modernization — contract per Ord. 485-07 to
R.W. Clark Company, Inc. (BOC Res. 434-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Yards Service Facility improvements — per Ord. 692-06 —
all bids rejected — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
(BOC Res. 435-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Inc.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1795
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1795

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Couplings, pipe repair — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply
Waterworks, Ltd. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 429-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debris disposal at landfill — contract per Ord. 344-08 to Boyas Excavating, Inc.
(BOC Res. 431-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debris disposal at landfill — per Ord. 344-08 — bids rejected
(BOC Res. 432-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Electronic Bill Presentment and Payment system — contract per Ord. 1036-07
to Kubra Data Transfer Ltd. — Division of Water (BOC Res. 428-08) . . . . . .
Sewer, rehabilitation and relining — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.292 to United
Survey, Inc. — Division of Water Pollution Control (BOC Res. 430-08) . . . . .

1810

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1794
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1795
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1795
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1794
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1795

September 10, 2008

The City Record

45

Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Couplings, pipe repair — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply
Waterworks, Ltd. — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 429-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Debris disposal at landfill — contract per Ord. 344-08 to Boyas Excavating, Inc. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 431-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Forestry Tree Planting Services — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Yardmaster, Inc. — Division of Park Maintenance and Properties,
Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 436-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Forestry Tree Planting Services — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Aaron Landscaping — Division of Park Maintenance and Properties,
Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 437-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Forestry Tree Removal Services — contract per C.O. Sec. 181.101 to
Van Curen Services, Inc. — Division of Park Maintenance and Properties,
Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 438-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1794
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1795

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1796

Board of Control — Water Division
Couplings, pipe repair — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.25 to HD Supply Waterworks, Ltd. —
Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 429-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1794
Electronic Bill Presentment and Payment system — contract per Ord. 1036-07 to
Kubra Data Transfer Ltd. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 428-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1794

Board of Control — Water Pollution Control Division
Sewer, rehabilitation and relining — contract per C.O. Sec. 129.292 to United
Survey, Inc. — Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 430-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1795

Board of Elections
Charter of the City of Cleveland — City election process (Board of Elections) (O 1316-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1801

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Beachwood Avenue, 12612, (Ward 2) — Malikah Joseph, owner and occupant — appeal denied
and adopted on 9/8/08 (Cal. 08-153). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brookpark Road, 1500, (Ward 16) — Martina Family Properties, owner and Dan Kulchytsky,
agent — appeal withdrawn on 9/8/08 (Cal. 08-148) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dension Avenue, 3908 , (Ward 15) — Eugene J. Giammarco, owner, and Sherry Perry, tenant —
appeal granted and adopted on 9/8/08 (Cal. 08-150) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street, 3303, (Ward 11) — Sheilia Rose, owner — appeal withdrawn on 9/8/08
(Cal. 08-142) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fir Avenue, 6020, (Ward 17) — John Farrier, owner — appeal denied and adopted on 9/8/08
(Cal. 08-147) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Avenue, 5504, (Ward 12) — Paul Colletti, owner — appeal heard on 9/8/2008
(Cal. 08-158) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hilland Road, 4585, a.ka. 4631 Broadale Avenue, (Ward 15) — Joseph Bucha, owner — appeal
heard on 9/8/08 (Cal. 08-155) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Nelson Avenue, 11219, (Ward 2) — Georgia Ross-Hepburn, owner — appeal heard on 9/8/2008
(Cal. 08-157) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 15606, (Ward 11) — Jimmie Poole, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
9/8/08 (Cal. 08-83). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Malden Road, 2412 , (Ward 10) — Sheryl Parks, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
9/8/08 (Cal. 08-152). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Triskett Road, 12510, (Ward 19) — Triskett Road Storage, LLC, owner and Clear
Channel Outdoor, tenant — appeal to be reheard on 9/22/08 (Cal. 08-52) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Avenue, 12304, (Ward 8) — The Cleveland Metropolitan School District, owner —
appeal heard on 9/8/08 (Cal. 08-67) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 14th Street, 4493, (Ward 15) — Lucile Cline, owner — appeal heard on 9/8/2008
(Cal. 08-156) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th Street, 2527, (Ward 14) — Klein-Barabas, Ltd., LLC, owner and Mario Nemr,
tenant — appeal granted and adopted on 9/8/08 (Cal. 08-135) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Archwood Avenue, 3304, (Ward 15) — John Hayes, owner — appeal to be heard on 9/22/08
(Cal. 08-161) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1797
East 156th Street, 231, (Ward 11) — Northeast Shores Development Corporation, owner —
appeal to be heard on 9/22/08 (Cal. 08-165) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798
West 116th Street, 1595, (Ward 18) — Pedro Rodriguez, owner, and Sherry Johns, tenant —
appeal to be heard on 9/22/08 (Cal. 08-162) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1798

1811

The City Record

46

September 10, 2008

Bonds
Water Revenue Bonds — issuance and sale — refund outstanding water
revenue bonds — Waterworks System — Finance Department —
Utilities Department (O 1326-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1771

Building and Housing Department
Title search services in conjunction with the City’s demolition program — professional
consultants (O 1349-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1786

Burke Lakefront Airport
Relating to hours of operation at Burke Lakefront Airport — amend Sect. 571.80 —
Port Control Department (O 1333-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780
Relating to tie-down spaces at Burke Lakefront Airport — amend Sect. 571.84 —
Port Control Department (O 1334-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780

Charter
Charter of the City of Cleveland — City election process (Board of Elections)
(O 1316-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charter of the City of Cleveland — Civil Service Commission (O 1319-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charter of the City of Cleveland — Effective date of legislation and referendum
(30 day effective date) (O 1320-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charter of the City of Cleveland — Police Review Board (Office of Professional Standards)
(O 1317-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charter of the City of Cleveland — Redistricting of Wards (O 1321-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charter of the City of Cleveland — small purchase & design — build —
Contracts involving any expenditure in excess of fifty thousand dollars
(O 1318-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1801
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1805
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1806
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1803
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1807

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1804

City Council
Charter of the City of Cleveland — Effective date of legislation and referendum (30 day
effective date) (O 1320-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1806
Charter of the City of Cleveland — Redistricting of Wards (O 1321-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1807
Cleveland City Council — agreement for professional services — Louise Laffitte
(O 1362-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1790

City of Cleveland Bids
Aerial moving map system — Department of Public Safety — Division of Police —
per Ord. 1008-08 — bid due October 8, 2008 (advertised 9/10/2008 and 9/17/2008) . . . . . . .
Carpet for Mayor’s Office Complex (Re-Bid) — Department of Public Service —
Division of Architecture — per Ord. 485-07 — bid due September 24, 2008
(advertised 9/10/2008 and 9/17/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Convention Center steam leak repair — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties —
Division of Convention Center and Stadium — per Ord. 818-08 — bid due September 24,
2008 (advertised 9/10/2008 and 9/17/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cory Recreation Center floor repair and dewatering (Re-Bid) — Department of Public
Service — Division of Architecture — per Ord. 922-07 — bid due October 2, 2008
(advertised 9/10/2008 and 9/17/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Criminal and Civil Filing System — Department of Finance — behalf of Cleveland
Municipal Court — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due September 24, 2008
(advertised 9/3/2008 and 9/10/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exhaust Fans, overhead at Ridge Road Transfer, repair and maintenance —
Department of Public Service — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal —
per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due October 2, 2008 (advertised 9/10/2008 and 9/17/2008) . . . .
Material handling equipment (industrial trucks, sweepers, scrubbers, aerial lifts,
tractors) maintenance and repair (Re-Bid) — Department of Public Utilities —
Division of Water Pollution Control — per Ord. 1690-07 — bid due September 26, 2008
(advertised 9/3/2008 and 9/10/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Messenger Services — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due
September 26, 2008 (advertised 9/3/2008 and 9/10/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paper Products and Cloth Wipers — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 —
bid due September 26, 2008 (advertised 9/3/2008 and 9/10/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Plumbing Supplies and Equipment — Department of Finance — per C.O. Sec. 181.101 —
bid due September 26, 2008 (advertised 9/3/2008 and 9/10/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential Sound Insulation Program (RSIP), Phase II, Contract A-08 — Department of
Port Control — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — per Ord.
930-95, 469-98, 327-2000 — bid due October 8, 2008 (advertised 9/10/2008 and 9/17/2008) . .

1812

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1801

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1801

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1801

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1801

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1801

September 10, 2008

The City Record

47

Scale pit cleaning and maintenance at Ridge Road Transfer Station/Scale House —
Department of Public Service — Division of Waste Collection and Disposal —
per C.O. Sec. 181.101 — bid due October 2, 2008 (advertised 9/10/2008 and 9/17/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1801
Steering gear and related parts — Department of Public Service — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 686-07 — bid due October 2, 2008
(advertised 9/10/2008 and 9/17/2008). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1801
Uninterruruptible Power Supply Systems, Generators, Components, Appurtenances —
Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 1869-07 — bid due
October 10, 2008 (advertised 9/3/2008 and 9/10/2008) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1800

City Planning Commission
E.104th St., — intent to vacate a portion — Service Department (Ward 03)
(R 1352-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1788
W. 130th St., & Bellaire Rd., (southeast corner) — Change the Use District —
General Retail Business to Semi-Industry — (Ward 19) (O 1353-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1787

Civil Service Commission
Charter of the City of Cleveland (O 1319-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1805

Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Port Control Department — lease property located at CHIA to Continental Airlines
(Lots S-24 & S-25) (O 1330-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1779

Cleveland Municipal School District
Patrick Henry Middle School — name change — “Stephanie Tubbs Jones K-8 School.”
(Ward 9) (R 1361-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1790

Codified Ordinances
Amend Sect. 135.065 — Contracts for the purchase firearms, ammunition, helmets, tasers,
and K-9 police dogs — Public Safety (O 1344-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
Relating to hours of operation at Burke Lakefront Airport — amend Sect. 571.80 —
Port Control Department (O 1333-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780
Relating to tie-down spaces at Burke Lakefront Airport — amend Sect. 571.84 —
Port Control Department (O 1334-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780

Community Development
Churchill Ave., PPN 120-01-045 / 046 / 047 — Land Reutilization Program —
Famicos Foundation (O 1348-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1788
Denison Ave., PPN 015-24-015 — Land Reutilization Program — Robert E.
Prunty & Gayle Prunty (Ward 15) (O 1346-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1785

Community Development
Kamm’s Corners Development Corp — agreement — West Park Population
Demographic Trend Analysis Study Project (Ward 21 NEF) (O 1355-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1789
West 33rd St., PPN 007-31-069 — Land Reutilization Program — Richard H. Lennon,
Bishop of Cleveland Catholic Diocese (Ward 14) (O 1347-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1785

Condolences
Arlene Mills (R 1399-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crandfield, Joy (R 1409-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cunningham, Green (R 1402-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dr. Miles A. Coburn (R 1398-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eddie, L. Rebecca (R 1397-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gray, Marion (R 1404-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Houston, Marcella L. (R 1401-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Karn, Kevin A. (R 1405-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. (R 1323-08) . . . . . . .
Martin, Del (R 1406-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Maurice Reedus (R 1400-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paige Cobbins, Tammy G. (R 1396-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rogers, Michell Renee (R 1403-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie (R 1394-08)
Vega, Carlos “Carly” (R 1407-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walk, Alice (R 1408-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wooten, Deacon Henry L. (R 1395-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1813

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770

The City Record

48

September 10, 2008

Congratulations
Circolo Italo-Americano Corenese (R 1411-08) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eliza Bryant Village — 41st Annual Luncheon (R 1415-08) .
Giuliano, Rev. Dr. R. Mark (R 1414-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glenville Seventh Day Adventist Church (R 1417-08) . . . . . .
Humphrey, Pastor Walter Marlon (R 1412-08) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jones, Basheer (R 1413-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jones, Ora (R 1416-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Root, Otis Evan (R 1410-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roye L. Kidd (“Roye Kidd Field” Dedication) (R 1418-08) . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770

Contracts
Amend Contract # 38171 with Continental Airlines for rent credits — Port Control Department
(O 1328-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Sect. 135.065 — Contracts for the purchase firearms, ammunition, helmets, tasers,
and K-9 police dogs — Public Safety (O 1344-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
AutoCad contract for software and upgrades — Port Control Department
(O 1331-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charter of the City of Cleveland — small purchase & design — build — Contracts involving
any expenditure in excess of fifty thousand dollars (O 1318-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2009 — grant — Criminal Justice Services
Agency — Cuyahoga County — implement the program (O 1337-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts for professional services to manage Gateway (East & North) Garages — Parks,
Recreation and Properties (O 1345-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Critical Business Analysis, Inc. — contracts — acquisition of Expedition software — amend
title & Sect. 1 Ord. 588-08 (O 1332-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Finance Director — internet providers to supply the City of Cleveland buildings
(excluding City Council offices) with high-speed internet / subscriber
services agreement (O 1167-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gang Prevention Coordination Assistance Program — grant — U.S. Department of Justice —
Partnership for a Safer Cleveland — implement the grant (O 1343-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Group medical and dental insurance — City employees — professional services
(O 1375-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Utilities — Terrace Construction — Cleaning and Lining 2007 —
Area B (F 1393-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Public Utilities — Utilcon Corp — Cleaning and Lining 2007 — Area A (F 1392-08) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2009 — Grants — Criminal Justice Services Agency —
Cuyahoga County — Law Department (O 1350-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1778
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1779
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1804
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1785
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1794
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1786
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1786

County Budget Commission
Tax Budget, Year 2009 — submit to County Budget Commission — Finance Department
(R 1351-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1788

Cuyahoga County
Cleveland Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2009 — grant — Criminal Justice Services
Agency — implement the program (O 1337-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781
Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2009 — Grants — Criminal Justice Services Agency —
Law Department (O 1350-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1786

Debt Service Funds
Appropriations — ($3,600,000) of the Internal Service funds — ($ 2,300,000) of the
Enterprise Fund — ($92,338,811) of Debt Service funds (O 1325-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

Economic Development Department
E. 145th St., — Mount Pleasant NOW Development Corp. — agreement — Kinsman Retail Center
Project (Ward 3 NEF) (O 1354-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1789

Encroachments
Urban Community School — encroach into public right-of-way — Lorain Ave. (With 12 banners)
(Ward 14) (O 1335-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781

Enterprise Funds
Appropriations — ($3,600,000) of the Internal Service funds — ($ 2,300,000) of the
Enterprise Fund — ($92,338,811) of Debt Service funds (O 1325-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

1814

September 10, 2008

The City Record

49

Famicos Foundation
Churchill Ave., PPN 120-01-045 / 046 / 047 — Land Reutilization Program — (O 1348-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1788

Finance Department
Appropriations — ($3,600,000) of the Internal Service funds — ($ 2,300,000) of the
Enterprise Fund — ($ 92,338,811) of Debt Service funds (O 1325-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts — internet providers to supply the City of Cleveland buildings (excluding City
Council offices) with high-speed internet / subscriber services agreement
(O 1167-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financial statement assessment, 2008 — Ohio Auditor — Taxation Division —
Water Division — contracts with Julian Grube, Inc. (O 1324-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moral Claims — payment (O 1168-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tax Budget, Year 2009 — submit to County Budget Commission (R 1351-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water Revenue Bonds — issuance and sale — refund outstanding water revenue bonds —
Waterworks System — Utilities Department (O 1326-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1794
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1794
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1788
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1771

Grants
Cleveland Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2009 — Criminal Justice Services Agency —
Cuyahoga County — implement the program (O 1337-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
COPS Technology Program — U.S. Department of Justice, COPS Office — Public Safety
(O 1340-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, 2008 — Ohio Office of Criminal
Justice Services — surveillance equipment — Safety Department (O 1338-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, 2008 — U.S. Department of Justice —
fingerprint examiners — - Public Safety (O 1341-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gang Prevention Coordination Assistance Program — U.S. Department of Justice — Partnership
for a Safer Cleveland — implement the grant (O 1343-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northern Ohio Law Enforcement Task Force Program — State of Ohio — Public Safety
(O 1339-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paul Coverdell Forensic Science Improvement Program, 2008 — U.S. Department of Justice —
materials, equipment, supplies, and services needed to implement the grant —
Public Safety (O 1342-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2009 — Criminal Justice Services Agency — Cuyahoga
County — Law Department (O 1350-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1781
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1783
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1782
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1783
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1782

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1786

House Bill
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1790

Insurance
Group medical and dental insurance — City employees — professional services (O 1375-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1786

Internal Service Funds
Appropriations — ($3,600,000) of the Internal Service funds — ($ 2,300,000) of the
Enterprise Fund — ($ 92,338,811) of Debt Service funds (O 1325-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

Journal Correction
Howse, Council Member Stephanie — Ward 7 — oath of office (F 1322-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1769
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

Land Reutilization Program
Churchill Ave., PPN 120-01-045 / 046 / 047 — Famicos Foundation (O 1348-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1788
Denison Ave., PPN 015-24-015 — Robert E. Prunty & Gayle Prunty (Ward 15)
(O 1346-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1785
West 33rd St., PPN 007-31-069 — Richard H. Lennon, Bishop of Cleveland Catholic Diocese
(Ward 14) (O 1347-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1785

Law Department
Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2009 — Grants — Criminal Justice Services Agency —
Cuyahoga County (O 1350-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1786

Lease Agreement
I-X Center Corporation — Port Control Department (O 1327-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1778

1815

The City Record

50

September 10, 2008

Leases
Port Control Department — lease property located at CHIA to Continental Airlines
(Lots S-24 & S-25) (O 1330-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1779

Liquor Permits
Aetna Rd., 9102 — objection to transfer of Liquor License (Ward 02)
(R 1372-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Aetna Rd., 9102 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 02) (F 1376-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Anderson Rd., 9619 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1213-08 (Ward 03)
(R 1368-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bolivar Rd., 727 — stock transfer application (Ward 13) (R 1364-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Ave., 5801 (1st fl. & basement) — transfer of ownership application (Ward 17)
(F 1389-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 116th St., 2892 — objection to transfer of ownership (Ward 04) (R 1373-08) . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 116th St., 3643 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1215-08 — (Ward 03)
(R 1369-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 116th St., 3705 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 02) (F 1377-08) . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 131st St., 4096-98 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 02) (F 1378-08) . . . . . . . . . .
E. 200th St., 788 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1058-08 — (Ward 11)
(R 1367-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55th St., 2167 — transfer of location application (Ward 05) (F 1379-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55th St., 2625 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 05) (F 1380-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 79th St., 1930 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 05) (F 1381-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Larchmere Blvd., 12706 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 06)
(F 1382-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Rd., 1301 (1st fl. & patio) — transfer of location application (Ward 13)
(F 1385-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4142 — new application (Ward 21 ) (F 1390-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4142 — new application (Ward 21) (R 1365-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4163 — new application (Ward 21) (R 1366-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4163 — new application (Ward 21) (F 1391-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 12200 — transfer of ownership application (Ward 09) (F 1384-08) . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 602 — transfer of location application (Ward 13) (F 1386-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 6918 (1st fl. & basement) — transfer of ownership application (Ward 07)
(F 1383-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 11th St., 2391-99 (1st. fl, basement & patio) — transfer of ownership application (Ward
13) (F 1387-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 41st St., 2644 — transfer of location application (Ward 14) (F 1388-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 44th St., 3238 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1045-08 — (Ward 14)
(R 1370-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 44th St., 3353 — withdraw objections to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1244-08
& 1223-08 (Ward 14) (R 1371-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1769
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1792
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1791
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1792
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1769
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1769
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1792
1769
1769
1769

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1769
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1770
1770
1791
1792
1770
1770
1770

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1769
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1793

Moral Claims
Moral Claims — payment (O 1168-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1794

Neighborhood Equity Funds
E. 145th St. — Mount Pleasant NOW Development Corp. — agreement —
Economic Development Dept. — Kinsman Retail Center Project
(Ward 3 NEF) (O 1354-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1789
Kamm’s Corners Development Corp — agreement — Community Development —
West Park Population Demographic Trend Analysis Study Project
(Ward 21 NEF) (O 1355-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1789

Oath of Office
Howse, Council Member Stephanie — Ward 7 (F 1322-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1769

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Contracts for professional services to manage Gateway (East & North) Garages
(O 1345-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1785

Personnel Department
Group medical and dental insurance — City employees — professional services
(O 1375-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1786

1816

September 10, 2008

The City Record

51

Police Review Board
Charter of the City of Cleveland — Police Review Board (Office of Professional Standards)
(O 1317-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1803

Port Control Department
Amend Contract # 38171 with Continental Airlines for rent credits (O 1328-08). . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amend Lease Agreement with I-X Center Corporation (O 1327-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
AutoCad contract for software and upgrades (O 1331-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Critical Business Analysis, Inc. — contracts — acquisition of Expedition software —
amend title & Sect. 1 Ord. 588-08 (O 1332-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lease property located at CHIA to Continental Airlines (Lots S-24 & S-25) (O 1330-08) . . . . . .
Professional Services for Planning Studies — amend Sect. 1 Ord. 2380-02 — (O 1329-08) . . . . .
Relating to hours of operation at Burke Lakefront Airport — amend Sect. 571.80 (O 1333-08)
Relating to tie-down spaces at Burke Lakefront Airport — amend Sect. 571.84 (O 1334-08). . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1778
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1778
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1779
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1780
1779
1778
1780
1780

Professional Services
AutoCad contract for software and upgrades — Port Control Department (O 1331-08).
Cleveland City Council — agreement — Louise Laffitte (O 1362-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contracts for professional services to manage Gateway (East & North) Garages —
Parks, Recreation and Properties (O 1345-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Critical Business Analysis, Inc. — contracts — acquisition of Expedition software —
amend title & Sect. 1 Ord. 588-08 (O 1332-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Group medical and dental insurance — City employees (O 1375-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Planning Studies — amend Sect. 1 Ord. 2380-02 — Port Control Department
(O 1329-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title search services in conjunction with the City’s demolition program —
professional consultants (O 1349-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1779
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1790
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1785
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1780
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1786
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1778
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1786

Public Improvements
Charter of the City of Cleveland — small purchase & design — build —
Contracts involving any expenditure in excess of fifty thousand dollars
(O 1318-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1804

Public Right-of-Way
Urban Community School — encroach — Lorain Ave. (With 12 banners) (Ward 14)
(O 1335-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781

Purchases and Supplies Division
Charter of the City of Cleveland — small purchase & design — build —
Contracts involving any expenditure in excess of fifty thousand dollars
(O 1318-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1804

Recognition
4th Annual Worship & Praise Deaf Festival (R 1420-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Culinary Celebration Week / The Fabulous Food Show (R 1422-08) .
Community Shares Campaign 2008 Kickoff (R 1423-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Hispanic Heritage Month (R 1421-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Simon, Helen (R 1419-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zeta Phi Beta Sorority, Inc., Gamma Delta Zeta Chapter (R 1424-08) . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1770
1770
1770
1770
1770
1770

Resolution of Support
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1790
State of Ohio — to pass a bill to designate — State Route 422/ Kinsman Road/Chagrin
Boulevard as the “Stephanie Tubbs Jones Memorial Boulevard.” (Ward 03)
(R 1363-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1790

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Cleveland Municipal School District — Patrick Henry Middle School — name change —
“Stephanie Tubbs Jones K-8 School.” (Ward 9) (R 1361-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1790
Ovarian Cancer Awareness Day (R 1357-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1790
State of Ohio — to pass a bill to designate — State Route 422/ Kinsman Road/Chagrin
Boulevard as the “Stephanie Tubbs Jones Memorial Boulevard.” (Ward 02)
(R 1363-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1790

1817

The City Record

52

September 10, 2008

Safety Department
Amend Sect. 135.065 — Contracts for the purchase firearms, ammunition, helmets, tasers,
and K-9 police dogs (O 1344-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Charter of the City of Cleveland — Police Review Board (Office of Professional Standards)
(O 1317-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Team Approach to Domestic Violence, 2009 — grant — Criminal
Justice Services Agency — Cuyahoga County — implement the program
(O 1337-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
COPS Technology Program — grant — U.S. Department of Justice, COPS Office
(O 1340-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program, 2008 — Grants —
Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services — surveillance equipment
(O 1338-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, 2008 — grant —
U.S. Department of Justice — fingerprint examiners (O 1341-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gang Prevention Coordination Assistance Program — grant — U.S. Department
of Justice — Partnership for a Safer Cleveland — implement the grant
(O 1343-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northern Ohio Law Enforcement Task Force Program — grant — State of Ohio
(O 1339-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paul Coverdell Forensic Science Improvement Program, 2008 — grant —
U.S. Department of Justice — materials, equipment, supplies, and services
needed to implement the grant (O 1342-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1803

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1783

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1782
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1783

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1782

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1784

Service Department
Designating portion of Rose Court as Foxhall Court — secondary and honorary
designation — City Planning Commission (Ward 5) (O 1336-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E.104th St., — intent to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission (Ward 03)
(R 1352-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Latvian Cultural Garden Committee — permit for banners — Latvian Cultural
Garden (Rockefeller Park) — Aug. 18, 2008 — Sept. 17, 2008 — One World Day —
(Ward 8) (O 1358-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Community School — encroach into public right-of-way — Lorain Ave.
(With 12 banners) (Ward 14) (O 1335-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Community School — permit for banners — September 9, 2008 to October 8, 2008 —
40th anniversary (Ward 17) (O 1359-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
William (Sonny) Harris Road — secondary name — Stearn Road (O 1360-08). . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1788

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1789
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1789
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1789

State Auditor
Financial statement assessment, 2008 — Ohio Auditor — Finance Department —
Taxation Division — Water Division — contracts with Julian Grube, Inc.
(O 1324-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

State of Ohio
Northern Ohio Law Enforcement Task Force Program — grant — Public Safety
(O 1339-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1782
State of Ohio — to pass a bill to designate — State Route 422/ Kinsman Road/Chagrin
Boulevard as the “Stephanie Tubbs Jones Memorial Boulevard.” (Ward 03)
(R 1363-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1790

Statement of Work Acceptance
Public Utilities — contract — Terrace Construction — Cleaning and Lining 2007 —
Area B (F 1393-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
Public Utilities — contract — Utilcon Corp — Cleaning and Lining 2007 — Area A (F 1392-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

Street Vacation
E.104th St., — intent to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(Ward 03) (R 1352-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1788

Streets — Name
Designating portion of Rose Court as Foxhall Court — secondary and honorary
designation — City Planning Commission — Service Dept. (Ward 5)
(O 1336-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781
William (Sonny) Harris Road — secondary name — Stearn Road (O 1360-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1789

1818

September 10, 2008

The City Record

53

Tax Budget
Tax Budget, Year 2009 — submit to County Budget Commission —
Finance Department (R 1351-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1788

Taxation Division
Financial statement assessment, 2008 — Ohio Auditor — Finance Department —
Taxation Division — Water Division — contracts with Julian Grube, Inc.
(O 1324-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

Utilities Department
Public Utilities — contract — Terrace Construction — Cleaning and Lining 2007 —
Area B (F 1393-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
Public Utilities — contract — Utilcon Corp — Cleaning and Lining 2007 —
Area A (F 1392-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
Water Revenue Bonds — issuance and sale — refund outstanding water revenue bonds —
Waterworks System — Finance Department — Utilities Department (O 1326-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1771

Ward 01
Gray, Marion — condolence (R 1404-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jones, Ora — Congratulatory (R 1416-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08)
Rogers, Michell Renee — condolence (R 1403-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roye L. Kidd (“Roye Kidd Field” Dedication) — congratulatory (R 1418-08) . . . . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zeta Phi Beta Sorority, Inc., Gamma Delta Zeta Chapter — recognition (R 1424-08) . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1770
1770
1770
1790
1770
1770
1770
1770

Ward 02
Aetna Rd., 9102 — objection to transfer of Liquor License — liquor permits (Ward 02)
(R 1372-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Aetna Rd., 9102 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permits (Ward 02) (F 1376-08). .
E. 116th St., 3705 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permits (Ward 02) (F 1377-08) .
E. 131st St., 4096-98 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permits (Ward 02)
(F 1378-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Houston, Marcella L. — condolence (R 1401-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08) . . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Walk, Alice — condolence (R 1408-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1769
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1769
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1769
1770
1770
1790
1770
1770

Ward 03
4th Annual Worship & Praise Deaf Festival — recognition (R 1420-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Anderson Rd., 9619 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1213-08 — liquor permits
(Ward 03) (R 1368-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mille, Arlene — condolence (R 1399-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 116th St., 3643 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1215-08 — liquor permits
(Ward 03) (R 1369-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 145th St., — Mount Pleasant NOW Development Corp. — agreement — Economic Development
Dept. — Kinsman Retail Center Project (Ward 3 NEF) (O 1354-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E.104th St., — intent to vacate a portion — City Planning Commission — Service Department
(Ward 03) (R 1352-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08) . . . . . . . . . .
State of Ohio — to pass a bill to designate — State Route 422/ Kinsman Road/Chagrin
Boulevard as the “Stephanie Tubbs Jones Memorial Boulevard.” (Ward 02)
(R 1363-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1792
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1792
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1789
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1788
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1790

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1790
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

Ward 04
E. 116th St., 2892 — objection to transfer of ownership — liquor permit (Ward 04)
(R 1373-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1793
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

1819

The City Record

54

September 10, 2008

Ward 05
Crandfield, Joy — condolence (R 1409-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Designating portion of Rose Court as Foxhall Court — secondary and honorary designation —
City Planning Commission — Service Dept. (Ward 5) (O 1336-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 55th St., 2167 — transfer of location application — liquor permits (Ward 05) (F 1379-08) . . . . .
E. 55th St., 2625 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permit (Ward 05) (F 1380-08). . . .
E. 79th St., 1930 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permits (Ward 05) (F 1381-08). . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08) . . . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1781
1769
1769
1769
1770
1790
1770

Ward 06
Cunningham, Green — condolence (R 1402-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Larchmere Blvd., 12706 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permits (Ward 06)
(F 1382-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08) . .
Simon, Helen — recognition (R 1419-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1769
1770
1790
1770
1770

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1770
1769
1770
1790

Ward 07
Eliza Bryant Village — 41st Annual Luncheon — Congratulatory (R 1415-08) . . . . . . . .
Howse, Council Member Stephanie — Ward 7 — oath of office (F 1322-08). . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08)
St. Clair Ave., 6918 (1st fl. & basement) — transfer of ownership application — liquor
permits (Ward 07) (F 1383-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wooten, Deacon Henry L. — condolence (R 1395-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1769
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

Ward 08
Churchill Ave., PPN 120-01-045 / 046 / 047 — Land Reutilization Program — Famicos
Foundation (O 1348-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glenville Seventh Day Adventist Church — Congratulatory (R 1417-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Houston, Marcella L. — condolence (R 1401-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Latvian Cultural Garden Committee — permit for banners — Latvian Cultural Garden (
Rockefeller Park) — Aug. 18, 2008 — Sept. 17, 2008 — One World Day — Service Dept.
(Ward 8) (O 1358-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1788
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1789
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

Ward 09
Cleveland Municipal School District — Patrick Henry Middle School — name change “Stephanie Tubbs Jones K-8 School.” (Ward 9) (R 1361-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eddie, L. Rebecca — Condolence (R 1397-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 12200 — transfer of ownership application — liquor permits (Ward 09) (F 1384-08) .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
William (Sonny) Harris Road — secondary name — Stearn Road (O 1360-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1790
1770
1770
1770
1770
1789

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1770
1770
1790
1770
1770

Ward 10
Humphrey, Pastor Walter Marlon — congratulatory (R 1412-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08)
Paige Cobbins, Tammy G. — condolence (R 1396-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

Ward 11
E. 200th St., 788 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1058-08 — liquor permit
(Ward 11) (R 1367-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1792
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
Ward 12
Community Shares Campaign 2008 Kickoff — recognition (R 1423-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08)
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1820

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1770
1770
1790
1770

September 10, 2008

The City Record

55

Ward 13
Bolivar Rd., 727 — stock transfer application — liquor permits (Ward 13) (R 1364-08) . . . . .
Coburn, Dr. Miles A. — condolence (R 1398-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Giuliano, Rev. Dr. R. Mark — Congratulatory (R 1414-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jones, Basheer — congratulatory (R 1413-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Rd., 1301 (1st fl. & patio) — transfer of location application — liquor permits
(Ward 13) (F 1385-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., 602 — transfer of location application — liquor permits Ward 13 (F 1386-08) .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 11th St., 2391-99 (1st. fl, basement & patio) — transfer of ownership application liquor permit (Ward 13) (F 1387-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1791
1770
1770
1770
1770

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

Ward 14
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Martin, Del — condolence (R 1406-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Hispanic Heritage Month — recognition (R 1421-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08) . . . . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Community School — encroach into public right-of-way — Lorain Ave. (With 12 banners)
(Ward 14) (O 1335-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vega, Carlos “Carly” — condolence (R 1407-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 41st St., 2644 — transfer of location application — liquor permits (Ward 14) (F 1388-08) . . . . .
W. 44th St., 3238 — withdraw objection to renewal — repeal Res. 1045-08 — liquor permits
(Ward 14) (R 1370-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 44th St., 3353 — withdraw objections to transfer of ownership — repeal Res. 1244-08
& 1223-08- liquor permits (Ward 14) (R 1371-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 33rd St., PPN 007-31-069 — Land Reutilization Program — Richard H. Lennon, Bishop
of Cleveland Catholic Diocese (Ward 14) (O 1347-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1770
1770
1770
1790
1770

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1781
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1793
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1785

Ward 15
Denison Ave., PPN 015-24-015 — Land Reutilization Program — Prunty, Robert E.
& Gayle Prunty (Ward 15) (O 1346-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08)
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1785
1770
1790
1770

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1770
1790
1770
1770

Ward 16
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08)
Root, Otis Evan — congratulatory (R 1410-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ward 17
Circolo Italo-Americano Corenese — congratulatory (R 1411-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Shares Campaign 2008 Kickoff — recognition (R 1423-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Ave., 5801 (1st fl. & basement) — transfer of ownership application —
liquor permits (Ward 17) (F 1389-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Karn, Kevin A. — condolence (R 1405-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08) . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Urban Community School — permit for banners — September 9, 2008 to October 8, 2008 —
40th anniversary — Service Dept. (Ward 17) (O 1359-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1770
1770
1770
1790
1770

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1789

Ward 18
Community Shares Campaign 2008 Kickoff — recognition (R 1423-08) .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . .
Reedus, Maurice — condolence (R 1400-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1770
1770
1770
1770

Ward 19
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08) . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 130th St., & Bellaire Rd., (southeast corner) — Change the Use District — General Retail
Business to Semi-Industry — City Planning Commission (Ward 19) (O 1353-08) . . . . . . . .

1821

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1790
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1787

The City Record

56

September 10, 2008

Ward 20
Cleveland Culinary Celebration Week / The Fabulous Food Show — recognition (R 1422-08)
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08) . . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1770
1770
1790
1770

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1789
1770
1790
1770
1791
1792
1770
1770

Ward 21
Kamm’s Corners Development Corp — agreement — Community Development —
West Park Population Demographic Trend Analysis Study Project
(Ward 21 NEF) (O 1355-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lewis, Councilwoman Fannie M. — condolence (R 1323-08). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio State legislature — Urging to support HB 196 — Movie Tax Incentive (R 1356-08)
Rocky River Dr., 4142 — new application — liquor permits (Ward 21 ) (F 1390-08) . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4142 — new application — liquor permits (Ward 21) (R 1365-08). . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4163 — new application — liquor permits (Ward 21) (R 1366-08). . . . .
Rocky River Dr., 4163 — new application — liquor permits (Ward 21) (F 1391-08) . . . . .
Tubbs Jones, Congresswoman Stephanie — condolence (R 1394-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

Water Division
Financial statement assessment, 2008 — Ohio Auditor — Finance Department —
Taxation Division — Water Division — contracts with Julian Grube, Inc.
(O 1324-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
Public Utilities — contract — Terrace Construction — Cleaning and Lining 2007 —
Area B (F 1393-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770
Public Utilities — contract — Utilcon Corp — Cleaning and Lining 2007 —
Area A (F 1392-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1770

Zoning
W. 130th St., & Bellaire Rd., (southeast corner) — Change the Use District —
General Retail Business to Semi-Industry — City Planning Commission
(Ward 19) (O 1353-08) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1787

1822

