The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d
May the Ninth, Two Thousand and One

Mayor
Michael R. White

President of Council
Michael D. Polensek
Clerk of Council
Ruby F. Moss
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

RECYCLE...........................Save the Future
Printed on Recycled Paper.....Council Cares

Containing

PAGE

City Council
The Calendar
Board of Control
Civil Service
Board of Zoning Appeals
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
Public Notices
Public Hearings
City of Cleveland Bids
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
Committee Meetings
Index

3
3
8
12
12
13
13
13
14
15
30
31

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Michael D. Polensek
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed..........................................3232 East 119th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
Craig E. Willis.........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr.........................................3004 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
Timothy J. Melena ........................6110 West Clinton Avenue
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council – Ruby F. Moss, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin.

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44106
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

MAYOR – Michael R. White
Judith Zimomra, Chief of Staff
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Susan E. Axelrod, Senior Executive Assistant for Health and Human Services
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Development
Nicholas P. Jackson, Executive Assistant for Services
Nina Turner, Executive Assistant for Legislative Affairs
Marvin Hayes, Executive Assistant for Intergovernmental Affairs
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Cornell P. Carter, Director, Pinky Carr, Chief Counsel,
Room 106
Lauren Moore, Chief City Prosecutor; Criminal Branch – Justice Center
8th Floor, Court Towers, 1200 Ontario Street
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Kelly Clark, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – Marilyn Henderson, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Robert C. Brown, Commissioner,
Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Diante Fritzgerald, Acting Commissioner,
1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – Robert Dolan, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Daniel Jarvis, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Morry Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Reuben Sheperd, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Mark D. Vanloh, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahkur, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner,
5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Traffic Engineering & Parking – Robert Mavec, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Michele C. Whitlow, Director, Mural Building
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS – Health – Cheri Hahn, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Donald Culp, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cleveland House of
Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Henry Guzmán, Director, Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police \ Martin L. Flask, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg.,
1300 Ontario Street
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Alfred T. Miller, Jr.,
Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS – Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard

Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner, Public
Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY D EVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Donald T. Moss, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Jeffrey K. Patterson, Director,

Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren, Director,

Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Dolores Alexander, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Dennis D. Dove, Director; Mayor

Michael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Dona Brady, Councilman Joe Cimperman,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIV IL SE RV ICE COMMISSI ON – Ro om 1 1 9, Anne Bloombe rg, Pre si de nt;
__________________________, Vice President; Gregory J. Wilson, Secretary;

Timothy J. Cosgrove, Member, Rev. Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy Hruby, Asst.

Sec’y.; _______________, Director; Council President Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman; Members;

Chris Carmody, Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.

Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, James Williams, Alternate Members – D. Cox,
P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Cornell P. Carter,

President; Finance Director Kelly Clark, Secretary; Council President
Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law

Director Cornell P. Carter; Councilman Nelson Cintron, Jr.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Cornell P.

Carter; Utilities Director Michael Konicek; Council President Michael D.
Polensek.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Acting Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Edward D. Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Cornell P. Carter; Chairman;
Finance Director Kelly Clark; Council President Michael D. Polensek;
Councilman Bill Patmon; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl
S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief
Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Richard Schanfarber,
Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; N. Kurt Wiebush, James Gibans,
Sandra Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen Schuerlein,
Randall Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Councilman Timothy J.
Melena, Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Ann Marie Feighan
12B
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12C
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
14A
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Linda M. DeLillo–Court Administrator,
Robert C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Michelle L. Paris–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, MAY 9, 2001

Vol. 88

No. 4561

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, MAY 7, 2001
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Dolan, Chairman;
O’Malley, Vice Chairman; Brady,
Jones, Patmon, Rybka, Sweeney.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee: Polensek, Chairman; Patmon,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Cimperman,
Coats,
Gordon,
Jackson,
Melena,
Sweeney.

RUBY F. MOSS
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1998-2001
MONDAY
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Rybka,
Chairman; Dolan, Vice Chairman;
Brady, Britt, Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee: Cintron, Chairman; Sweeney,
Vice
Chairman;
Coats,
Johnson,
Jones, Melena, O’Malley, Westbrook,
Willis.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
White, Chairman; Lewis, Vice Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Gordon, Johnson, Jones.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M.—Finance Committee: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cintron, Dolan, Lewis,
Melena, O’Malley, Polensek, Sweeney, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M.—Community and Economic
Development
Committee:
Melena,
Chairman;
Lewis,
Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Cintron,
Jackson,
Johnson,
Jones,
Willis.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00 P.M.—Public Health Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Brady, Vice
Chairman;
Cimperman,
Jackson,
Reed, Westbrook, Willis.
1:30 P.M.—Legislation Committee:
Lewis, Chairman; Jones, Vice Chairman; Coats, Gordon, Reed, Westbrook, White.

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: O’Malley, Chairman; Patmon, Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats,
Dolan, Melena, Polensek, Westbrook,
Willis.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Dolan,
Jackson,
O’Malley, Reed, White.
The following Committee is subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
O’Malley, Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Patmon, Sweeney.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY COUNCIL
______________
NO MEETING

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
ORDINANCES
Ord. No. 870-2000.
By Councilmen Cimperman and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving the Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan Area.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2606-81, passed December 14,
1981, this Council approved the
Euclid Prospect Area Community
Development Plan for the Plan Area
designated and described in such
Community Development Plan, and
by Ordinance Nos. 1766-87, passed
November 16, 1987, and 2317-92,
passed December 14, 1992, adopted
certain amendments to said Community Development Plan, and which
Plan contemplated certain activities
and treatment for the elimination of
conditions of blight and deterioration, and for the prevention of recurrence thereof within said Community Development Plan Area; and
Whereas, the City Planning Commission has replaced the Euclid
Prospect Area Community Development Plan with the Euclid/Prospect

883

II Community Development Plan
which Plan shall supersede the findings and recommendations of the
original Plan; and
Whereas, pursuant to notice duly
given, the City Planning Commission held a public hearing on the
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan, and has approved
such Plan; and
Whereas, the document entitled
“Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan,” dated March, 2001,
and the City Planning Commission
findings and related materials have
been presented to this Council, and
are set forth in File No. 870-2000-A,
and oral reports and testimony
thereon have been presented by City
staff and Council has been apprised
of the facts, conditions, structural
deficiencies, and blighting influences pertaining to the amended
Plan Area, including the existence
of a majority of structures therein
which because of structural deficiencies by reason of age, deterioration, dilapidation, or obsolescence,
or non-conformance with modern
code requirements relating to building, or fire protection, or of existing
conditions therein endangering life
and property by fire or other causes, and because of the existence in
such amended Plan Area of other
conditions which are detrimental to
the public health, safety, morals,
and general welfare; and
Whereas, for the foregoing reasons, Council has determined that
the Plan for the Plan Area, and the
implementation
of
the
measures
therein set forth will be in the best
interests of the citizens of the City
and will provide for the general
health, safety, and welfare of the
City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of public property, health, and safety in that approval of the Plan is
necessary in order that steps can be
immediately undertaken to eliminate conditions of blight and deterioration in the Plan Area; now,
therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, based upon the
facts
and
conditions
concerning
blight and determined that the
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan is adopted in the
respects set forth in the above-mentioned file, which Plan includes
without limitation, the Land Use
Restrictions thereof.
Section 2. That this Council hereby finds that the public actions and
policies proposed and contemplated
by the Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan are necessary and appropriate in order to

4
eliminate the conditions of blight
and deterioration, and prevent the
recurrence therein the Plan Area;
and it is hereby found and determined that the Plan conforms to
and is in compliance with the
applicable provisions of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976.
Section 3. That it is hereby found
and determined that the Plan will
afford maximum opportunity consistent with the sound needs of the
City as a whole for redevelopment
of the Plan Area and that the Plan
gives due consideration to the provision of adequate open space, park
and recreational areas appropriate
to the area and that the Plan is in
conformity with the general Plan of
the City and the workable program
for community improvements of the
City.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 2015-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of demolishing,
relocating and constructing certain
NASA facilities in order to permit
the construction of Runway 5L/23R;
authorizing the Director of Port
Control to enter into contracts for
the making of such improvement;
authorizing contracts for the purchase of supplies, materials, equipment and other items required to
make the improvement, including
rental, labor and installation, if necessary; authorizing said Director to
apply and pay for permits, licenses,
or other authorizations as necessary
to make the public improvement;
authorizing contracts with Siemens,
Inc. and Cutler Hammer for the purchase of computer-based distributed
control systems; and authorizing the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to acquire such interests in
real property as are necessary to
make the public improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of demolishing, relocating and
constructing certain NASA facilities
in order to permit the construction
of Runway 5L/23R (“Improvement”).
Section 2. The Director of Port
Control is hereby authorized to
enter into contracts for the making
of the Improvement, by contracts
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidders after competitive bidding
for a gross price, provided however,
that each separate bid on a unit
price basis provided, however, that
each separate trade and each distinct component part of the Improvement may be treated as a separate
improvement, and each, or any com-

The City Record
bination, of such trades or components may be the subject of a separate contract for a gross price.
Upon request of said Director the
contractor shall furnish a correct
schedule of unit prices, including
profit and overhead, for all items
constituting units of the Improvement. The Director of Port Control
shall present the one hundred percent (100%) design drawings for the
Improvement to the Chairman of the
Aviation and Transportation Committee and the Chairman of the
Finance Committee for their review
prior to the award of the contract(s)
authorized by this division, for the
making of the Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make written standard purchase
contracts and written requirements
contracts in accordance with the
Charter and Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the period of
such requirements not to exceed two
years, for each and all of the necessary items of supplies, material,
equipment and other items required
to make the Improvement, including
the rental of such items, and labor
and materials to install and maintain any and all of the foregoing
items, to be purchased or procured
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control. Bids shall be taken in
such a manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provision
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized
to purchase, lease or otherwise
acquire easements, fee interests,
licenses, permits, mitigation credits,
and other rights or interests in real
property directly necessary for the
Improvement.
Section 5. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
execute on behalf of the City of
Cleveland all necessary documents
to acquire said rights or interests in
real property directly necessary for
the Improvement and to employ title
companies,
surveyors,
escrow
agents, appraisers, environmental
consultants, and field service consultants necessary for the acquisition or use of the rights or interests
in real property authorized by Section 4 hereof.
Section 6. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into agreements with the holders of said rights or interests in real
property to relocate or to otherwise
modify existing buildings, equipment, fixtures or other features of
said property and to pay or reimburse related costs to permit the
making of the Improvement.
Section 7. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into agreements with federal,
state, and local governmental or regulatory entities or other public
authorities necessary and to pay or
reimburse
directly
related
costs
incurred by such entities for the
purpose of making the Improvement.

884

May 9, 2001
Section 8. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
apply for and pay for such permits
and licenses required by any regulatory entity or other public authority for making of the Improvement.
Section 9. That it is hereby determined that certain commodities necessary for the Improvement are noncompetitive and cannot be secured
from any source other than Siemens,
Inc. Therefore, the Director of Port
Control is hereby authorized to
make
a
written
contract
with
Siemens, Inc. for the purchase of the
following
computer-based
distributed control systems: the PPSS Life
Safety System, and the EMCS Energy Management Control System, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control, upon an
amount determined by the Board of
Control and pursuant to terms and
conditions acceptable to the Director
of Law.
Section 10. That it is hereby determined that certain commodities necessary for the Improvement are noncompetitive and cannot be secured
from any source other than Cutler
Hammer. Therefore, the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make a written contract with Cutler
Hammer for the purchase of the following computer-based distributed
control system: the IMPAC Power
Monitoring System, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control, upon an amount determined by the Board of Control and
pursuant to terms and conditions
acceptable to the Director of Law.
Section 11. That the cost of any
requirement contracts entered into
pursuant to this ordinance shall be
charged against the proper account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon, which purchase,
together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance.
Section 12. That, as a condition
precedent to entering into any contracts or agreements contemplated
to
make
the
Improvement,
the
Department of Port Control shall be
in receipt of all necessary federal
approvals, including the Record of
Decision
for
the
Environmental
Impact Statement, and other such
regulatory approvals as may be
required.
Section 13. That the Director of
Port Control shall file a copy of all
contracts,
permits,
licenses
or
agreements entered into by the City
as authorized by this ordinance
with the Clerk of Council, the President of Council, the Chairman of
the Aviation and Transportation
Committee and the Chairman of the
Finance Committee within five (5)
business days of execution by the
City.
Section 14. That the cost of any
expenditures
authorized
by
this
ordinance for any contract, including all public improvements, standard purchases, requirements contracts
and
property
acquisition,
shall not exceed a total amount of
$86,908,692.00 and shall be paid from

May 9, 2001
Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF 104, 60
SF 105, 60 SF 106, passenger facility charges and the fund and/or subfunds to which are credited the proceeds of any general airport revenue
bonds, federal grants, state grants,
and local grants issued for the purpose of the Improvement authorized
herein.
In
the
event
that
the
Improvement exceeds or is anticipated to exceed the amount specified for each project component listed herein, the Director of Port Control shall notify the President of
Council, the Chairman of the Aviation and Transportation Committee,
and the Chairman of the Finance
Committee of the need for a subsidiary agreement in accordance
with Section 185.44 of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, and shall immediately
proceed to secure the necessary legislative approval from Cleveland
City Council. (RL 8297)
Section 15. That, in accordance
with federal law and to the extent
permitted by federal law, all construction contracts entered into pursuant to this ordinance shall establish a goal of hiring at least thirty
percent (30%) MBE, ten percent
(10%)
FBE,
twenty-five
percent
(25%) minority workforce, seven
and one-half percent (7.5%) female
workforce and forty percent (40%)
City residents. In seeking to obtain
such goal, all contractors shall utilize best efforts.
Section 16. That the Director of
Port Control shall provide detailed
bimonthly written reports to the
President of Council, the Chairman
of the Aviation and Transportation
Committee, and the Chairman of the
Finance Committee of all expenditures made pursuant to this ordinance, including the source of funds
for such expenditures. The Director
of Port Control shall also provide to
the aforementioned Council representatives detailed bimonthly written reports of the MBE/FBE goals
and residency and workforce goals
set forth herein.
Section 17. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 27-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a project
agreement with MRN Ltd., an Ohio
limited partnership for the acquisition, clearance and redevelopment of
certain lands in the Euclid/Prospect
II Community Development Plan
Area.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of
Cleveland
by
Ordinance
No.
__________, passed _______, approved
and adopted the Euclid/Prospect II
Community Development Plan dated
________ (the “Plan”), for the plan
area designated and described in
said Plan (the “Plan Area”); and
Whereas, the Plan established a
treatment area for a portion of the
Plan Area (the “Treatment Area”) to

The City Record
achieve some of the following purposes: public or private land acquisition, public or private demolition
or redevelopment of structures, public or private site improvements, or
any combination of these purposes;
and
Whereas, MRN Ltd., an Ohio limited partnership, have submitted a
proposal which the Director of Community Development has determined
to be a satisfactory means of achieving some of the purposes for the
Treatment Area as described in the
Plan; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the public property, health
or safety, in that the authorization
of a project agreement with MRN
Ltd., an Ohio limited partnership
will achieve certain purposes for the
Treatment Area as described in the
Plan; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to any section
of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Director of Community Development is authorized
to enter into and execute a project
agreement for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland with MRN Ltd., an
Ohio limited partnership (the “Redeveloper”) for the acquisition, disposition and private redevelopment for
the Treatment Area in accordance
with the provisions of the Plan. The
Plan Area is described as follows:
EUCLID — PROSPECT C.D.
PLAN BOUNDARY
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Ontario
Street (99.00 feet wide) with the centerline of West Prospect Avenue
(100.00 feet wide);
Thence Westerly, along the centerline of said West Prospect to its
intersection with the Southerly prolongation of the Westerly line of
property owned by DeBartolo Public
Square Inc. and known as P.P.N. 10123-001 and 101-23-003 A & B;
Thence
Northerly,
along
the
Southerly
prolongation
and
the
Westerly line of said DeBartolo Public Square Inc. property and its
Northerly prolongation to its intersection with the centerline of the
South Roadway of Public Square;
Thence Easterly, along the centerline of the said South Roadway
to its intersection with the centerline of the East Roadway of Public
Square;
Thence Northerly, along said East
Roadway to its intersection the centerline of with Superior Avenue
(132.00 feet wide);
Thence Easterly, along said Superior Avenue to its intersection with
the Northerly prolongation of the
Westerly line of land owned by
Leader-Cleveland Realty Associates
(P.P.N. 101-26-010);
Thence
Southerly,
along
said
Northerly prolongation and Westerly
line to the Southwest corner thereof;
Thence
Easterly,
along
the
Southerly line of said Leader-Cleveland Realty Associates and its Easterly prolongation to its intersection
with the centerline of East 6th
Street (50.00 feet wide);
Thence Southerly, along said East
6th Street to its intersection with
the centerline of Euclid Avenue

885

5
(99.00 feet wide);
Thence
Easterly,
along
said
Euclid Avenue to its intersection
with the centerline of East 8th
Street (16.00 feet wide);
Thence Southerly, along said East
8th Street to its intersection with
the centerline of Prospect Avenue
(82.50 feet wide);
Thence
Westerly,
along
said
Prospect Avenue to its intersection
with the centerline of Ontario Street;
Thence Southerly, along the said
centerline of Ontario Street to its
intersection with the centerline of
West Prospect Avenue and the place
of beginning.
Section 2. That the project agreement authorized herein shall include
without limitation the following
terms and conditions:
(a) an agreement by the City of
Cleveland to acquire that property
within the Treatment Area which
cannot be privately acquired in a
timely fashion through reasonable
negotiations;
(b) an agreement by the City of
Cleveland to convey, by official deed
or deeds, within the Treatment Area,
certain property more fully described
in Section 3 of this ordinance; provided that the deed or deeds shall
contain such restrictive covenants,
reversionary interests or similar provisions ad may, in the judgment of
the Director of Community Development, be required to insure the elimination within the Treatment Area of
conditions of blight and deterioration
and for the prevention of recurrence
of said conditions;
(c) a commitment by the Redeveloper to comply with all Federal
and state real property acquisition
requirements, including without limitation relocation assistance, to the
extent Federal or state funding is
usual for acquisition;
(d) a commitment by the Redeveloper to pay all costs of real property acquisition within the Treatment Area;
(e) a commitment by the Redeveloper to pay all costs of demolition required to develop the Treatment Area in accordance with the
Plan;
(f) an agreement by the Redeveloper to use best efforts to meet the
following Minority Business Enterprise and Female Business Enterprise construction contractor participation goals:
30% MBE; and
10% FBE; and
(g) such other requirements as the
Director of Community Development
may deem necessary to protect the
interests of the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions
of Chapters 181 and 183 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, the following property may be
conveyed to the Redeveloper pursuant to the project agreement:
Euclid-Prospect II C.D. Plan
Treatment Area
Block 3 Site B
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and beginning on the centerline of Euclid Avenue (99 feet wide)
at its intersection with the centerline of East 3rd Street (16.5 feet
wide); thence Easterly along the
centerline of said Euclid Avenue to
its intersection with the Northerly

6
prolongation of the Easterly line of
a parcel of land owned by Alvin
Krenzler (PPN 101-26-040); thence
Southerly along the Northerly prolongation and the Easterly line of
said Krenzler parcel to the South
Easterly
corner
thereof;
thence
Westerly along the Southerly line of
said Krenzler parcel and its Westerly prolongation to its intersection
with the Easterly line of a parcel of
land owned by Miriam G. Kenney et
al (PPN 101-26-043); thence Southerly along the Easterly line of said
Kenney parcel and its Southerly prolongation to its intersection with the
centerline of Prospect Avenue (82.5
feet wide); thence Westerly along
the centerline of said Prospect
Avenue to its intersection with the
centerline of East 3rd Street as
aforesaid; thence Northerly along
the centerline of said East 3rd
Street to its intersection with the

The City Record
centerline of Euclid Avenue and the
place of beginning.
Section 4. That this Council finds
the conveyance to the Redeveloper
of the property described herein, for
the purpose of redevelopment, constitute a public use of said property.
Section 5. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
property described herein at a price
not less than the fair market value
of the property taking into account
all restrictions, reversionary interests
and
similar
encumbrances
placed by the City of Cleveland in
the deed or deeds of conveyance.
Section 6. That the conveyance to
the Redeveloper shall be made by
official quitclaim deed to be prepared by the Director of Law and
executed by the Mayor on behalf of
the City of Cleveland.

May 9, 2001
Section 7. That the Mayor, the
Director of Community Development, the Director of Economic
Development, the Director of Law,
and such appropriate City officials
are authorized to execute such certifications
and
documents,
and
take such other actions as may be
necessary or appropriate in connection
with
carrying
out
the
terms of the project agreement
and the activities contemplated by
the Plan.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

Ord. No. 85-01.
By Councilman Westbrook (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Cudell Improvement,
Inc. to encroach into the right-of-way of Detroit Avenue between West 110th and West 117th Streets with
approximately nineteen (19) banners to be attached to CPP utility poles (by separate permission) for an on-going
banner program for the Detroit Business District.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, and assignable by the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to Cudell
Improvement, Inc., 11650 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44102, its successors and assigns, for the construction,
use and maintenance of an on-going banner program which will include approximately nineteen (19) banners for
the Detroit Avenue Business District, to be attached to Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate
permission) which will encroach into the public right-of-way of Detroit Avenue between West 110th Street and
West 117th Street at the locations more fully described as follows:
LOCATION:

POLE NUMBER:

USE:

E-7-11
No Tag
E-7-12
E-7-15
E-7-17
E-7-19
E-7-21
E-7-23
E-7-24
E-8-2
E-8-4
E-8-5
E-8-9
E-8-7
E-8-10
E-8-11
E-8-13
E-8-14

Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner
Banner

DETROIT AVENUE:
11006 Detroit (N)
11014 Detroit (N)
11024 Detroit (N)
11210 Detroit (N)
11500 Detroit (N)
11500 Detroit (N)
11604 Detroit (N)
11650 Detroit (N)
NE Corner of Detroit & W. 117 St.
SE Corner of Detroit & W. 117 St.
11609 Detroit (S)
11603 Detroit (S)
11411 Detroit (S)
11411 Detroit (S)
11215 Detroit (S)
11201 Detroit (S)
11103 Detroit (S)
11101 Detroit (S)

Section 2. That said banners will be placed within the public right-of-way as aforesaid in Section 1, and will
be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and
Construction. That all other required permits, including a Building Permit, shall be obtained before said fence
is constructed.
Section 3. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered to grant to Permittee any right, privilege
or permission to use or to attach or affix any object to poles described in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 3. That the permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 4. That the banners authorized by this ordinance shall be reviewed by the City Planning Commission.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.

886

May 9, 2001
Ord. No. 444-01.
By Councilmen Dolan, Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a First Amendment to Contract No. 56401 with
Kamms Corners Development Corporation to provide additional neighborhood revitalization activities.
Ord. No. 538-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for a grant from the Minority
Health Commission for the Diabetes
Action Plan Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for a grant in the approximate amount of $200,000, and any
other funds as they may become
available during the grant term,
from the Minority Health Commission, to conduct the Diabetes Action
Plan Program.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 538-01-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 540-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of animal trapping services,
for the Division of Environment,
Department of Public Health.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of animal trapping services in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding year, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the Division of Environment, Department of Public Health. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases

The City Record
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $60,000 and
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent purchases,
shall be made on order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant to a requisition against
such contract duly certified by the
Director of Finance. (RL 25170)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 541-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency for financial assistance for
the operation of the Division of
Environment; and authorizing said
Director to enter into contracts for
the purchase of service and equipment necessary to implement the
program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the approximate amount of $2,554,960
from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for financial assistance for the operation of the Division of Environment in accordance
with the purposes set forth in the
respective
application;
that
the
Director of Public Health is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
apply for and receive the funds
under said grants; and that said
funds be appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grants.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 541-01-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, is hereby approved in all
respects, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide in
cash matching funds in the sum of
$491,250, from the Division of Environment’s General Fund budget in
order to receive the grant from the
U.S.
Environmental
Protection
Agency.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to enter into contracts for the purchase of equipment and services
necessary to implement the Program, and that said contracts are
payable from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency

887

7
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Ord. No. 613-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to apply
for and accept a grant from the
Western Reserve Area Agency on
Aging for the 2001 Western Reserve
Area Agency on Aging Grant.
Ord. No. 615-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to apply and accept a
grant from the State of Ohio Department of Development to conduct the
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program and to enter into contract with various organizations,
individual landlords, tenants and
contractors for the purpose of providing weatherization assistance to
low-income City residents through
the
State
Home
Weatherization
Assistance Program.
RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. 140-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution requiring the laying, re-laying and repairing of sidewalks, driveway aprons,
curbs, gutters and/or castings on
certain streets and any associated
corner properties herein named in
the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department, now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is necessary to
lay, re-lay and repair sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters and/or
castings, including adjustments of
utility boxes, where necessary, in
the City of Cleveland on the following streets, at the locations hereinafter named and between the
points mentioned, including both the
frontage and depth of corner lots
where said streets intersect, be
layed, re-layed and repaired, with
either stone flagging or concrete, to
the full width of the present sidewalks or curbing on the streets and
any associated corner properties
respectively:
West 93rd Street and West 95th
Street – Madison Avenue to Willard
Avenue
9801 Denison Avenue – Southwest
corner of Denison Avenue and West
98th Street
3243 West 98th Street – Southeast
corner of Denison Avenue and West
98th Street
Ashbury Avenue – East Boulevard
to Lakeview Road
Woodhaven – Ridge Road to West
63rd Street
West 59th Street – Memphis to
Ridgeview
Cleveland Road – North of St.
Clair Avenue

8
Catalpa Road – North of Euclid
Avenue
East 176th – Villaview to Nottingham Road
East 177th – Villaview to Nottingham Road
Creekview – Nottingham Road to
east end
Dillewood – East 176th Street to
east end
Nottingham Road – Villaview to
Lakeshore Boulevard
Shelton Road – Nottingham Road
to east end
Tiverton road – Nottingham Road
to east end
Sprengle Road – West 146th Street
to West 143rd Street (curb only)
Allien Avenue – East of W. 179th
Street to W. 176th Street.
Section 2. That, provided that
eighty percent (80%) of the property owners on each street subject to
this resolution agree to the work
described in Section 1 of this resolution, the Director of Finance shall
cause a written notice of the adoption of this resolution to be served
upon the owner, agent of the owner,
of each parcel of land abutting upon
the sidewalk, driveway apron, curb,
gutter, and/or casting to be layed or
re-layed or repaired. In the manner
provided by law for the service of
summons in civil actions and in
accordance with Section 164 of the
City Charter of the City of Cleveland. A copy of the notice, with the
time and manner of service endorsed
thereon, signed by the person serving it shall be returned to the office
of the Director of Finance and there
filed and preserved. The said notice
shall also provide that: if the sidewalk, driveway apron, curb, gutter,
and/or casting are not layed, relayed or repaired by the abutting
owner,
in
accordance
with
the
notice, within fifteen (15) days from
service of notice or completion of
the publication thereof, the City will
proceed, through the appropriate
department, to lay, re-lay or repair
such
sidewalk,
driveway
apron,
curb, gutter, and/or casting, including adjustments of utility boxes,
where necessary at the cost and
expense of the owner of the property in front of which the same is
layed, re-layed, repaired; and the
cost and expense thereof, unless
paid to the Director of Finance, will
be assessed against the abutting
property, and collected in the same
manner as other assessments, as
provided in Section 165 of the Charter of the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Res. No. 317-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency resolution supporting the efforts of the Cleveland
Restoration Society, the Downtown
Cleveland Partnership, and Downtown Ohio, Inc. in preparing a proposal, for submission to members of
the Ohio State Legislature, to provide a historic property rehabilitation tax credit for the renovation
and maintenance of historic property.

The City Record
BOARD OF CONTROL
May 2, 2001
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, May 2, 2001, at
11:00 a.m. with Acting Mayor Carter
presiding.
Present: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander
Absent: Director Patterson.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies.
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 282-01.
By Director Brooks.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc. for
an estimated quantity of cab/chassis with aerial bucket/chip dump
body for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on
April 6, 2001, pursuant to the authority
of
Ordinance
No.
1685-2000,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on October 30, 2000, and
Ordinance No. 99-01, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
January 22, 2001, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to Ninety-Nine Thousand
Nine
Hundred
Twenty-Six
and
00/100 Dollars ($99,926.00) (Net), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director
of
Finance
is
hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 29610
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of NinetyNine Thousand Nine Hundred Twenty-Six and 00/100 Dollars ($99,926.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc. for the
above mentioned purchase is hereby
approved:
Logical Services, Inc.
MBE — $800.00 per unit
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.

888

May 9, 2001
Resolution No. 283-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No. 27101, adopted April 25, 2001, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1980-96, passed June 2, 1997, approving the bid of D & M Painting Corporation, as lowest and best for
Chamberlin Water Tower demolition,
items 1 through 8, for the Division
of Water, Department of Public Utilities, is hereby amended by deleting
the words “two hundred twenty-two
thousand one hundred four dollars”,
where appearing, and substituting
the words “two hundred twenty-five
thousand one hundred four dollars.”
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 271-01 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 284-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Utilicon Corporation for
an estimated quantity of repair of
water mains and appurtences (area
c) (all items) for the Division of
Water, Department of Public Utilities, for a period of one (1) year
beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on the
4th day of April, 2001, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 141599, passed October 4, 1999, on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to One Million Six
Hundred
Twenty-Six
Thousand
Eight
Hundred
Sixty-Two
and
50/100 Dollars ($1,626,862.50) (2%,
Net 30 Days), is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest and best
bid, and the Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter
into requirement contract for such
commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:
Requisition No. 33918
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Six
Hundred
Thousand
Dollars
($600,000.00)
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by Utilicon Corporation, for the contract
authorized herein hereby is approved:
NAME
RMC, Inc.

MBE/FBE
MBE $249,000.00/15%

Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whit-

May 9, 2001
low, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 285-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Wesco Distribution,
Inc. for an estimated quantity of
meters and metering equipment,
item no. 2, for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
March 29, 2001, pursuant to the
authority of Section 129.26 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount
to One Hundred Thirty Three Thousand Six Hundred and no/100 Dollars ($133,600.00), (Net 30 Days), is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Public Utilities is hereby requested to enter into requirement contract for such commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate
purchase
as
the
initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 36517
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Sixteen
Thousand
Seven
Hundred
and
no/100 Dollars ($16,700.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 286-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that the bid of Pepco for an estimated quantity of meters and metering equipment, item nos. 1 and 3,
for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, for a period of one (1)
year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
March 29, 2001, pursuant to the
authority of Section 129.26 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, which on the basis of the
estimated quantity would amount to
One Hundred Fifty Two Thousand
Eight Hundred Seventy Five and
no/100 Dollars ($152,875.00) (2%, 30
Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Utilities
is hereby requested to enter into
requirement contract for such commodities, which shall provide for
the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such contract of the
following:

The City Record
Requisition No. 36516
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
One Thousand Four Hundred Two
and 50/100 Dollars ($21,402.50).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 287-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Board of Control Resolution No. 83-01, adopted February
14, 2001, pursuant to Ordinance Nos.
552-2000, passed June 19, 2000, and
1234-2000,
passed
July
17,
2000,
approving Independence Excavating, Inc., for the public improvement
of the Brookpark Waterline Relocation project for this Division of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Department of Port Control,
the employment of the following
subcontractors for the above-mentioned public improvement project is
hereby approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS

DESCRIPTION

East Jordan Iron Works
Finish cast
Iron castings
for structures
to Burkshire
construction
State Barricading, Inc.
Labor and Material
for maintenance
of traffic
Victory White
Furnishing Waterline
materials to
Lawrence Harris
construction for
12" size or less
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 288-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Whereas, by Resolution No. 196-01,
adopted March 28, 2001, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 20222000, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on December 18,
2000, this Board of Control approved
the bid of Baker Vehicle Systems,
Inc., as the lowest and best bid for
the purchase of Cushman-Ransome
parts and labor; and
Whereas, in said Resolution No.
196-01, the bidder’s Requisition No.
was incorrectly stated as 29565; now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that

889

9
the Board of Control Resolution No.
196-01,
adopted
March
26,
2001,
affirming and approving the bid of
Baker Vehicle Systems, Inc. as the
lowest and best for the purchase of
Cushman-Ransome parts and labor,
for the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public
Service,
hereby
is
amended
by
changing the bidder’s Requisition
No. to 29569.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said resolutions
not expressly amended hereby shall
remain in full force and effect.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 289-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Petroleum Traders Corporation for an estimated quantity
of gasoline, item 1 (a and b) and
item 2 (a and b), for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, for the period of one (1) year beginning with
the date of execution of a contract,
received on April 12, 2001, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
134-01, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on March 19, 2001,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to One Million Six Hundred Eighty Thousand
Two Hundred Twenty Three and
no/100 Dollars ($1,680,223.00) (Net 30
Days),
is
hereby
affirmed
and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 29613
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Four
Hundred Thousand and no/100 Dollars ($400,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 290-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved, by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the bid of Fleet Supplies, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of gasoline, item
3 (a and b) for the Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Department of
Public Service, for the period of one
(1) year beginning with the date of
execution of a contract, received on
April 12, 2001, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 134-01,

10
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on March 19, 2001, which
on the basis of the estimated quantity would amount to Twelve Thousand Four Hundred Thirty Five and
60/100 Dollars ($12,435.60) (0% Net
30 Days), is hereby affirmed and approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Public Service is
hereby requested to enter into a
requirement contract for such goods
and/or services, which shall provide
for the immediate purchase as the
initial amount of such contract of
the following:
Requisition No. 29612
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Thousand
and
no/100
Dollars
($1,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 291-01.
By Director Miller.
Whereas, Resolution No. 503-00,
adopted by this Board on July 19,
2000, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance No. 104-2000, passed by
the Cleveland City Council on April
17, 2000, authorized the Director of
Parks, Recreation & Properties to
enter into a contract with Ballast
Construction, Inc. as the lowest
responsible bidder for the public
improvement,
in
the
aggregate
amount of One Hundred Thirty Two
Thousand, Seven Hundred Nine and
50/100 Dollars ($132,709.50); and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 291-01,
passed by Cleveland City Council on
April 9, 2001, amended Ordinance No.
104-2000 to exclude public improvement contracts for swimming pool
fence replacement from the requirement therein that the contract be
executed within ninety days of passage of said Ordinance; and
Whereas,
the
City
desires
to
amend Resolution No. 503-00 to
include reference to Ordinance No.
291-01; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No. 50300, adopted July 19, 2000, affirming
and approving Ballast Construction,
Inc. as lowest responsible bidder for
certain
improvements
is
hereby
amended by adding the words “and
Ordinance
No.
291-01”
after
the
words
“Ordinance
No.
104-2000”,
where appearing, and by adding the
words “and April 9, 2001 respectively” after the words “April 17, 2000”,
where appearing.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 503-00 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Direc-

The City Record
tors Miller, Hudecek, Warren
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.

May 9, 2001
and

Resolution No. 292-01.
By Director Miller.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that Board of Control Resolution No.
263-01, adopted April 18, 2001 approving ParkWorks to conduct a vacant
lot maintenance program with the
City of Cleveland, is hereby amended by deleting the amount of “1.79
cents per square foot” where appearing in the second paragraph and
substituting therefor the amount
“1.64 cents per square foot”.
Be it further resolved that all
other terms and provisions of said
Resolution No. 263-01 not hereby
amended shall remain unchanged
and in full force and effect.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 293-01.
By Director Miller.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Hillcrest Food Service for an estimated, quantity of various food
items (Bid I: 1-22) (Bid II: 23-170)
for
the
Division
of
Recreation,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, for the period of one
year beginning with the date of execution of a contract, received on the
25th day of April, 2001, pursuant to
the authority of Ordinance No. 21562000, passed December 18, 2000,
which on the basis of the estimated
quantity would amount to Sixty
Nine Thousand Five Hundred Seventy
Seven
and
08/100
Dollars
($69,577.08), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest and best bid,
and the Director of Parks, Recreation
and
Properties
is
hereby
requested to enter into requirement
contract
for
such
commodities,
which shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount
of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 32697
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Twenty
Five
Thousand
and
00/100
($25,000.00) Dollars.
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 294-01.
By Director Miller.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc. for

890

the following: One (1) cab/chassis
with aerial bucket/chip dump body
for the Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Department of
Park, Recreation and Properties,
received on April 6, 2001, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
104-2000, passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland April 17, 2000,
which on the basis of the order
quantity would amount to NinetyNine Thousand Nine Hundred Twenty-Six and 00/100 Dollars ($99,926.00)
(Net-10 Days), is hereby approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is hereby requested to
enter into a contract for such item.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the employment of
the following subcontractor by Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc. for the
above mentioned purchase is hereby
approved:
Logical Services Inc.
MBE — $800.00 per unit
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 295-01.
By Director Miller.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Tom Paige Catering Company for
an estimated quantity of meals for
the Summer Food Program (Item 1
— approximately One Hundred and
Twenty Four Thousand unitized
lunches
complete
as
specified)
(Item 2 — approximately Twenty
Seven Thousand breakfasts complete as specified) for the Division
of Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, for the
period three (3) months, beginning
with the date of execution of a contract received on the 25th day of
April 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 2156-2000, passed
December 18, 2000, which on the
basis of the estimated quantity
would amount to Two Hundred
Twenty Five Thousand Four Hundred and 00/100 ($225,400.00) Dollars,
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is hereby requested to
enter into requirement contract for
such commodities, which shall provide for the immediate purchase as
the initial amount of such contract
of the following:
Requisition No. 32696
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of One
Hundred Twenty Two Thousand
and 00/100 Dollars ($122,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
will furnish the remainder of the
requirement for such commodities,
whether more or less than said estimated quantity, as may be ordered
under subsequent requisitions separately certified against said contract.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Direc-

The City Record

May 9, 2001
tors Miller, Hudecek, Warren
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.

and

Resolution No. 296-01.
By Director Miller.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of R. DiLillo & Company for the public improvement of
Mercedes Cotner Park Site Improvements, for Base Bid Items #A1#A25, #A27 - #A52, #A57 - #A82,
Alternate Items #4A - #7A and Add
Alternate Items #AA1 - #AA5 and
#AA7 - #AA11 including the adjusted 5% contingency, for the Division
of Research, Planning & Development, Department of Parks, Recreation & Properties, received on February 14, 2001, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 849-99
and Ordinance No. 1728-00, passed
June 14, 1999 and April 9, 2001, upon
a unit basis for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of Five Hundred Seventy Four Thousand, Seven
Hundred Thirty and 00/100 Dollars
($574,730.00), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid; and the Director of Department
of Parks, Recreation & Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract for said improvement with said
bidder.
Be it further resolved by the
Board of Control of the City of
Cleveland that the following subcontractors for R. DiLillo & Company on the public improvement for
Mercedes Cotner Park Site Improvements are hereby approved.
SUBCONTRACTS
RESPONSIBILITY
Cook Paving (MBE)
Asphalt Paving
Tech Ready Mix (MBE)
Concrete Supply
Barrow Sign (FBE)
Signage
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 297-01.
By Director Miller.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the base bid, including alternates 1,
2, 3, and 4, of Envirocom Construction Inc. for the Highland Park
Cemetery
Mausoleum
Masonry
Restoration, for the Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
received on April 12, 2001, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1422-98, passed December 7, 1998, for
a gross price for the improvement in
the aggregate amount of Three
Hundred Sixty Six Thousand Two
Hundred
and
no/100
Dollars
($366,200.00), is hereby affirmed and
approved as the lowest responsible
bid, and the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is hereby
authorized to enter into contract for
said improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved, by the
Board of Control of the City of,
Cleveland that the employment of

the following subcontractor by Envirocom Construction Inc. is hereby
approved:
Pearlrock Mechanical
MBE — $46,500.00
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 298-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2075-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1547-90 passed by the Council of
the City of Cleveland on April 8,
1991, this Board of Control adopted
Resolution No. 379-2000 on June 7,
2000, authorizing the sale of Permanent Parcel No. 136-18-052 (Westerly
half); and
Whereas, said Resolution No. 3792000 incorrectly identified the purchasers of said parcel as Willie L.
Coleman II and Angela Coleman;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Resolution No. 379-2000, adopted by
this Board of Control on June 7,
2000, authorizing the execution of a
deed for Permanent Parcel No. 13718-052 (Westerly half) to certain
purchasers is hereby amended by
correcting the spelling of the purchaser’s names to “Willie L. Coleman II and Tangala Coleman”.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 379-2000 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 299-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2075-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provision of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No.
126-01-023
located
on
Platt
Avenue in Ward 6; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Kenneth Harris, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:

891

11
1. The member of Council from
Ward 6 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Kenneth
Harris for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel No. 126-01-023
located on Platt Avenue, in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 300-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2075-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 119-29-168, 119-29169, 119-29-170, and 119-29-171 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 133-2000
passed March 27, 2000, authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas,
Fairfax
Renaissance
Development
Corporation
or
designee has proposed to the City to
purchase and develop said parcel;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that that pursuant to the authorization of Ordinance No. 133-2000
passed March 27, 2000, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is
hereby authorized to execute an
official deed for and on behalf of
the City of Cleveland with Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation or designee for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 119-29-168, 119-29-169, 119-29-170,
and 119-29-171, as described in said
Ordinance in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$100.00 (each), which amount is
hereby determined to be no less
than the fair market value of said
parcel for uses in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program.

12
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 301-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2075-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel Nos. 105-32-163, 105-32164 and 105-32-165 under said Land
Reutilization Program; and
Whereas,
Ordinance
No.
87-01
passed April 9, 2001, authorized the
sale of said parcels for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas, The House of God, The
Church of the Living Good, The Pillar and the Ground of the Truth,
The House of Prayer for All People,
Inc. of Kentucky have proposed to
the City to purchase and develop
said parcels; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 87-01 passed April 9,
2001, by the Cleveland City Council,
the Mayor is hereby authorized to
execute an official deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland with
The House of God, The Church of
the Living Good, The Pillar and the
Ground of the Truth, The House of
Prayer for All People, Inc. of Kentucky for the sale and development
of Permanent Parcel Nos. 105-32-163,
105-32-164
and
105-32-165,
as
described in said Ordinance in accordance with the Land Reutilization
Program in such manner as best carries out the intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcels shall be
$100 each, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcels for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 302-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas,
pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2075-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 104-17-159 under
said Land Reutilization Program;
and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 305-01
passed April 9, 2001, authorized the
sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and
Whereas,
Joanne
Teague
has
proposed to the City to purchase
and develop said parcel; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 305-2001 passed April
9, 2001, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Joanne Teague for the sale
and development of Permanent Parcel No. 104-17-159, as described in
said Ordinance in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the fair
market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with the Land Reutilization Program.
Yeas: Acting Mayor Carter, Acting
Director Marks, Directors Brooks,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Director Patterson.
Resolution No. 303-01.
By Director Brooks.
Be it resolved by the Board Of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of Primexus, Inc. as
a subcontractor to Keane, Inc. under
Contract #54536 for the remediation
of various applications to insure
they are Year 2000 compliant, pursuant to
Ordinance
No.
1744-97,
passed by City Council on October
20, 1997 as amended, and Ordinance
No. 521-99, passed March 29, 1999,
and Board of Control Resolutions
Nos. 1080-97 and 398-99, adopted October 29, 1997 and June 23, 1999,
respectively, is hereby approved.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________
General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance positions who are successful in other
parts of the examinations must submit to a physical examination.
ANNE BLOOMBERG,
President

892

May 9, 2001
SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 21, 2001
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 01-80: 7201-7327 Dellenbaugh Avenue (Ward 7)
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority (CMHA) c/o Steve Oladeji, appeals to install approximately
370 linear feet of 6' high ornamental fencing to the south and east of
an approximate 524' x 235' parcel
located in a Multi-Family District
on the north side of Dellenbaugh
Avenue at 7201-7327 Dellenbaugh
Avenue; said installation being contrary to the Fence Regulations
where a 6' high ornamental fence
is
proposed
and
the
maximum
height of fencing permitted is 4' as
stated in Section 358.04(a) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-81: 7200-7324 Wade
Park Avenue (Ward 7)
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority (CMHA) c/o Steve Oladeji, appeals to install approximately
370 linear feet of 6' high ornamental fencing to the north and east of
an approximate 280' x 94' parcellocated in a Multi-Family District on
the south side of Wade Park Avenue
at 7200-7324 Wade Park Avenue;
said installation being contrary to
the Fence Regulations where a 6'
high ornamental fence is proposed
and the maximum height of fencing
permitted is 4' as stated in Section
3 5 8.04(a) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-82: 1425-1457 East
71st Street (Ward 7)
Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing
Authority (CMHA) c/o Steve Oladeji, appeals to install approximately
380 linear feet of 6' high ornamental fencing to the north, south and
west of an approximate 280' x 85'
parcel located in a Multi-Family
District on the east side of East 71st
Street between Wade Park Avenue
and Dellenbaugh Avenue at 14251457 East 71st Street; said installation being contrary to the Fence
Regulations where a 6' high ornamental fence is proposed and the
maximum height of fencing permitted is 4' as stated in Section
358.04(a)
of
the
Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-85: 1391 West 110th
Street (Ward 18)
H.S.C. General Partnership, owner
c/o Elizabeth Kohout, appeals to
change the use of an existing 162'
x 223' one-story warehouse building
into a manufacturing and assembly
use all situated on an approximate
252' x 480' irregular shaped parcel
located in a General Retail Business
District on the northeast corner of
Detroit Avenue and West 110th
Street at 1391 West 110th Street; said
change of use being contrary to the
Landscaping and Screening Requirements of Section 352.10 where a 6'
wide landscaping strip is required
along West 110th Street between the
parking lot and the street and the
proposed use is first permitted in a
Semi-Industry District as stated in
Section 345.03 and contrary to the
nonconforming use limitations and

May 9, 2001
requires
the
Board
of
Zoning
Appeals approval as stated in Section 359.01(a) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-87: 2776A Van Aken
Boulevard (Ward 4)
GMS Management Company, Inc.
owner c/o Stuart J. Graines and
Paul M. Greenberger, attorney, appeal under the authority of the
jurisdiction and power of Section
329.02 of the Codified Ordinances
from the Violation Notice issued on
April 9, 2001 by the Division of
Building and Housing, Department
of Community Development for the
property at 2776A Van Aken Boulevard.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, MAY 7, 2001
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, May 7,
2001, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 01-73: 3402 Ruby Avenue
Donald White, owner, appealed to
construct a 6' x 24' one-story porch
extension to the front of an existing 6' x 24' front porch of a two
family house in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 01-67: 1743 East 17th
Street
Med-All, Inc. c/o Nick Hill, owner,
appealed to demolish a one-story
masonry building and establish a
surface parking lot for 40 cars and
change the use of a one-story masonry office building into a warehouse
in a General Retail Business District.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 01-72: 18012 Hillgrove
Avenue
Kevin Marrie, owner, appealed to
change the use of a two dwelling
unit house into three dwelling units
in a Two-Family District.
Calendar No. 01-74: Violation Notice
Appeal — 619-625 East 140th
Street
Fayez H. Sammour, owner, appealed from the Violation Notice
issued
by
the
Commissioner
of
Building and Housing on March 5,
2001.
The following appeals were Postponed:
Calendar No. 01-26: 3887 Lee Road
postponed to May 29, 2001.
Calendar No. 01-44: 3712 East 59th
Street postponed to May 29,
2001.
Calendar No. 01-68: 3219 Detroit
Avenue postponed to June 4,
2001.

The City Record
The following appeals were Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 01-71: 2230 Euclid Avenue — Lot Split Appeal
Trustees of the Episcopal Diocese of Ohio, owner, appealed from
the refusal to approve the splitting
of a 127' x 146' parcel into an
approximate 114' x 132' irregular
shaped parcel and a 32' x 127' parcel on the south side of Euclid
Avenue.
Calendar No. 01-39: 16300 South
Waterloo Road
Michael Liptack, owner, appealed
to expand an existing engineering
company use to store materials and
equipment outside in a General
Industry District.
On Monday, May 7, 2001, in Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
on Monday, April 30, 2001, and said
decisions
were
approved
and
adopted by the Board on May 7,
2001:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 01-64: 511 Spring Road
Pat Manco, owner, appealed to
construct a 6' x 20' addition to an
existing garage in a One-Family
District.
Calendar No. 01-65: 13420 Sherry Avenue
Sharon Minter, owner, appealed to
enclose a 7'-1" x 28' front porch of
a single family dwelling in a OneFamily District.
Calendar No. 01-70: 6301 Dellbank
Drive
Robert W. Beech, owner, appealed
to install 73 linear feet of 5' high
ornamental fencing with a gate to
the rear of a corner parcel in a OneFamily District.
Calendar No. 01-75: 6005 Parkridge
Avenue
Jerrold L. Zarlenga, owner, appealed to construct a 28' x 38' twostory, frame single family house in
a One-Family District.
Calendar No. 01-51: Appeal of Christopher L. Smalls
Christopher L. Smalls appealed
under Section 76-6 and the Charter
of the City of Cleveland and Section
674.04 of the Codified Ordinances
from the denial of Handgun Registration and Handgun Owner’s Identification Card; decision of the Chief
of Cleveland Police Division reversed.
The following appeals were Denied:
Calendar No. 01-66: 3305 West 44th
Street
Ronald Edvon, owner, appealed to
park a motor vehicle in the driveway setback area of a single
dwelling house in a Two-Family
District.

893

13
Calendar No. 01-69: 576 East 152nd
Street
Thomas Gettings, owner, appealed
to expand a Rooming House by
adding a one-story, drive through
concession trailer to sell hot dogs
in a General Retail Business District.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
NO MEETING

PUBLIC NOTICE
NONE

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
Notice of Public Hearing
By the Council Committee
On City Planning
Mercedes Cotner
Committee Room 217
City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio
On Monday, May 21, 2001
1:30 P.M.
Notice is hereby given to all
interested property owners that the
Council Committee on City Planning will hold a public hearing in
the Mercedes Cotner Committee
Room 217, City Hall, Cleveland,
Ohio, on Monday, May 21, 2001, at
1:30 P.M., to consider the following
ordinance now pending in the
Council:
Ord. No. 452-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Dolan,
Lewis and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An ordinance to amend Section
350.10 of the Codified Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
as
amended by Ordinance No. 3076-A89,
passed
December
10,
1990,
relating to billboards; to enact
new Section 341.021 of said codified ordinances relating to airport
and lakefront public land protective districts; and to change the
use, area and height districts of
lands east of West 11 Street to
limited access line of State Route
176 (Map Change No 2029, Sheet
No 6).
All interested persons are urged
to be present or to be represented at
the above time and place.
JOSEPH C. CIMPERMAN,
Chairman
Committee on City Planning
May 9, 2001 and May 16, 2001

The City Record

14
CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code, each prime bidder, each minority business enterprise (“MBE”) and
each
female
business
enterprise
(“FBE”) must be certified before
doing business with the City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing
to receive credit for using an MBE
or FBE should ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or
FBE status compliance with the
Code, affirmative action in employment and, if applicable, joint venture status, are submitted to the
Office
of
Equal
Opportunity
(“OEO”) prior to the date of bid
opening or submission of proposals
or as specified by the Director.
Failure to comply with the business
enterprise code or with representations made on these forms may
result in cancellation of the contract
or other civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, MAY 17, 2001
The Rehabilitation of East 55th Street
— Phase III From Superior Avenue
to South Marginal Road, for the
Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 1588-2000, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
Meter Reading Computer Readers,
for the Division of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1678-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
November 27, 2000.
Messenger Services, for the Various
Divisions of City Government,
Department of Finance.
May 2, 2001 and May 9, 2001
FRIDAY, MAY 18, 2001
Towing Services, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 366-

01, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, April 9, 2001.
Meyer Snow Plow and Spreader Parts
and Labor, for the Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1822-99,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, December 6, 1999.
May 2, 2001 and May 9, 2001
WEDNESDAY, MAY 23, 2001
Residential Sound Insulation Program (RSIP)-Contract C-01, for the
Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 46998, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK
OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, MAY 10,
2001, 12:00 NOON LOCAL TIME, IN
THE 2ND FLOOR MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM, ADMINISTRATION OFFICE, PASSENGER TERMINAL BUILDING, CLEVELAND
HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, 5300 RIVERSIDE DRIVE.
ATTENDANCE IS MANDATORY.
Residential Sound Insulation Program (RSIP)-Contract D-01, for
the Department of Port Control, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 46998, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland.
A DEPOSIT OF ONE HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($100.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK OR MONEY ORDER WILL
BE REQUIRED FOR EACH SET
OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
THE DEPOSIT WILL BE REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS ARE
RETURNED IN
GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS AFTER THE BID
OPENING DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, MAY 10,
2001, 12:00 NOON LOCAL TIME, IN
THE 2ND FLOOR MAIN CONFERENCE ROOM, ADMINISTRATION OFFICE, PASSENGER TERMINAL BUILDING, CLEVELAND
HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, 5300 RIVERSIDE DRIVE.
ATTENDANCE IS MANDATORY.
May 2, 2001 and May 9, 2001
WEDNESDAY, MAY 30, 2001
Service and Maintenance of MSAand
AIM Gas Detection Equipment and
Calibration Systems, for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 2105-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
February 12, 2001.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON MONDAY, MAY 21, 2001,
10:00 A.M., 4TH FLOOR, NORTH
CONFERENCE ROOM, CARL B.
STOKES
PUBLIC
UTILITIES
BUILDING,
1201
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO.
May 2, 2001 and May 9, 2001

894

May 9, 2001
WEDNESDAY, MAY 23, 2001
Golf Carts, for the Division of
Recreation, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 80-01,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, April 9, 2001.
Autocad Software, Installation and
Support, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1198-2000,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, August 7, 2000.
Disposal of Debris at Landfills, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, as authorized
by Ordinance No. 946-99, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 14, 1999.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON FRIDAY, MAY 18, 2001,
10:00 A.M., AT THE DIVISION OF
WATER IN THE 4TH FLOOR
FINANCE CONFERENCE ROOM,
1201 LAKESIDE AVENUE, CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114. ATTENDANCE
IS MANDATORY.
May 9, 2001 and May 16, 2001
THURSDAY, MAY 24, 2001
Rehabilitation of State Road, for the
Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public
Service, as authorized by Ordinance Nos. 1284-99 and 730-2000,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, July 14, 1999 and
June 12, 2000, respectively.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) CERTIFIED CHECK OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL
BE
REQUIRED FOR EACH SET OF
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
THE
DEPOSIT
WILL
BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
May 9, 2001 and May 16, 2001
WEDNESDAY, MAY 30, 2001
Elevator Maintenance at City Hall,
for the Division of Property Management, Department of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
as
authorized by Ordinance No. 29701, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, April 9, 2001.
Elevator Maintenance and Repair,
for the Department of Public
Health, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1683-2000.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
SCHEDULED.
PLEASE
CALL
(216) 664-2634 TO OBTAIN DATE,
TIME AND LOCATION INFORMATION.
May 9, 2001 and May 16, 2001
FRIDAY, JUNE 1, 2001
Fifteen (15) 25-Cubic Yards Refuse
Packer Body Replacements, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance Nos. 1685-2000 and 9901, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, October 30,
2000
and
January
22,
2001,
respectively.

May 9, 2001
Pharmaceutical Supplies, for the
Department of Public Health, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 18042000, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, November 27,
2000.
May 9, 2001 and May 16, 2001

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES
Res. No. 753-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency
resolution withdrawing objection to the renewal of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 8716
Cedar Avenue, and repealing Res. No.
1328-2000 objecting to said renewal.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor
Permit to 8716 Cedar Avenue by
Res. No. 1328-2000 adopted by Council July 28, 2000; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
renewal and consents to said renewal; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
renewal of a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit
to 8716 Cedar Avenue, be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Res. No. 13282000, containing said objection, be and
the same is hereby repealed and that
this council consents to the immediate
renewal thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 754-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the transfer of
ownership of a D5 Liquor Permit to
3146 West 14th Street, and repealing
Res. No. 184-01 objecting to said
transfer of ownership.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the transfer of ownership of a D5
Liquor Permit to 3146 West 14th
Street by Res. No. 184-01 adopted by
Council February 5, 2001; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw
its
objection
to
the
above transfer of ownership and
consents to said transfer of ownership; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That objection to the
transfer of ownership of a D5 Liquor
Permit to 3146 West 14th Street, be
and the same is hereby withdrawn
and Res. No. 184-01, containing said
objection, be and the same is here-

The City Record
by repealed and that this Council
consents to the immediate transfer
of ownership thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 755-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of ownership of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 9200 Wade
Park Ave., Unit EA10.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 6273858, Mydis LTD, DBA
My Food, 9200 Wade Park Ave., Unit
EA10, Cleveland, Ohio 44106; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 6273858, Mydis LTD, DBA
My Food, 9200 Wade Park Ave., Unit
EA10, Cleveland, Ohio 44106 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this

895

15
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 756-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 7038 Linwood, 1st Fl.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 3350209, Annette Green,
DBA Greens Linwood Deli, 7038 Linwood, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44103;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based on
other legal grounds as set forth in
Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code.
Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 3350209, Annette Green,
DBA Greens Linwood Deli, 7038 Linwood, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio 44103
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.

16
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 757-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C2 and C2X Liquor Permit to 1795
East 55th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
3160612, Elias Ghazal, DBA Big Star
Eagle Market, 1795 East 55th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 to Permit No.
77052750005, Sammor Inc., DBA Big
Star Market, 1795 East 55th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C2 and C2X

The City Record
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
3160612, Elias Ghazal, DBA Big Star
Eagle Market, 1795 East 55th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 to Permit No.
77052750005, Sammor Inc., DBA Big
Star Market, 1795 East 55th Street,
Cleveland, Ohio 44103 and requests
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 758-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 5718 Bridge Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 7467795, Norma Rodriguez,
DBA
Grocery
Store,
5718
Bridge Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44102;
and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said

896

May 9, 2001
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 7467795, Norma Rodriguez,
DBA
Grocery
Store,
5718
Bridge Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44102
and requests the Director of Liquor
Control to set a hearing for said
application in accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 759-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 1204 East 105th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 1921184, Mary Daniels,
DBA McDaniels Mini Market, 1204
East 105th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44108; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure pro-

May 9, 2001
viding for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 1921184, Mary Daniels,
DBA McDaniels Mini Market, 1204
East 105th Street, Cleveland, Ohio
44108 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 760-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 15504 Waterloo Road.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 1895520, Bechara E.
Daher, DBA Freeway Service & Mini
Mart, 15504 Waterloo Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44110; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best
interests of the entire community;
and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and

The City Record
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code.
Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 1895520, Bechara E.
Daher, DBA Freeway Service & Mini
Mart, 15504 Waterloo Road, Cleveland, Ohio 44110 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 761-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 910 East 185th Street.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit
No.
56036170115,
Mascot
Petroleum Co. Inc., DBA Sunoco Sunmart, 910 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and

897

17
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit
No.
56036170115,
Mascot
Petroleum Co. Inc., DBA Sunoco Sunmart, 910 East 185th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44119 and requests the
Director of Liquor Control to set a
hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 762-01.
By
Councilmen
Polensek
and
Jones.
An emergency resolution supporting H.R. 1032 prohibiting oil and gas
exploration in the Great Lakes and
urging its prompt passage by Congress.
Whereas,
Congressman
Dennis
Kucinich recently introduced H.R.
1032 in the United States House of
Representatives prohibiting oil and
gas exploration, including any slant
or directional drilling, in the Great
Lakes region; and
Whereas, directional drilling allows exploration companies to drill
on land at an angle to reserves
below the lake bottom and such
drilling may extend for miles; and
Whereas, the practice of directional drilling raises concerns about
potential oil leaks and the release
of the potentially lethal chemical,
hydrogen sulfide, into the lake
waters; and
Whereas, this Council of the City
of Cleveland believes that oil and
gas exploration in the Great Lakes
presents a potential health hazard
to the 35 million people living near
the Great Lakes, including residents
of the City of Cleveland; and

18
Whereas, this Council joins with
Senator Voinovich, State Representatives Brian Flannery and Christopher
Redfern,
Mayors
Deborah
Sutherland of Bay Village and Donald Umerley of Rocky River, the
Sierra Club and Ohio PIRG, among
others, in prohibiting drilling in the
Great Lakes; and
Whereas, this Council urges Congress to pass H.R. 1032 in an expeditious manner; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland believes that oil
and gas exploration in the Great
Lakes presents a potential health
hazard to the 35 million people living near the Great Lakes, including
residents of the City of Cleveland,
and as such, urges the prompt passage of H.R. 1032 by Congress.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby requested to transmit a copy of
this resolution to President George
W. Bush, Speaker of the House of
Representatives Dennis Hastert, and
Congressman Dennis Kucinich.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 763-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon.
An emergency resolution supporting the goals and objectives of labor
unions within the City of Cleveland
and nationally; and urging unions to
work together amicably to resolve
any differences that may arise
between labor organizations.
Whereas, this Council of the City
of Cleveland, through passage of
numerous pieces of legislation, has
recognized the rights of all workers
to seek safe, fair working conditions
and to be paid equitably for their
work; and
Whereas, this Council, through
passage of numerous pieces of legislation and its actions, has demonstrated support for labor unions
within the City of Cleveland and
nationally; and
Whereas, it is this Council’s hope
and desire that unions can work
together amicably to resolve any
differences that may arise between
organizations in order that all union
members can benefit equitably; and
Whereas, this Council does not
wish to interject this body into an
inter-union labor disagreement and
fervently hopes that any dispute
between labor organizations will be
resolved so as to not adversely impact
the interests of any workers; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland supports the goals
and objectives of labor unions within the City of Cleveland and nationally; and it is this Council’s hope
and desire that unions can work
together amicably to resolve any
differences that may arise between
labor organizations.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 764-01.
By Councilmen Polensek, White
and Jones.
An emergency resolution opposing
H.B. 225 that would permit carrying
concealed weapons in Ohio.
Whereas, a bill allowing any
adult to carry a concealed weapon
was recently introduced in the Ohio
House of Representatives, as H.B.
225, which would change Ohio from
one of seven states where concealed
weapons are prohibited, to one of
only two states where concealed
weapons are allowed without any
restrictions; and
Whereas, the proposed legislation
would enact a “Vermont-style” gun
law, which is unique in the United
States for its total lack of restrictions, without any requirement for
safety training, previous weapons
experience or permits; and
Whereas, in addition to the seven
states, including Ohio, where concealed weapons are currently prohibited, there are fourteen states
which prohibit concealed weapons,
except when issued by law enforcement agencies, and twenty-eight
states
which
allow
concealed
weapons for “law-abiding citizens;”
and
Whereas, the proposed bill is
opposed by the Fraternal Order of
Police, and the liberalization of concealed weapons laws is opposed generally by almost every major law
enforcement organization, including
the International Brotherhood of
Police Officers and the International Association of Chiefs of Police;
and
Whereas, an Ohio Poll released
this month found that 69 percent of
Ohioans oppose a law that would
make it easier to get a permit to
carry a concealed weapon, which is
consistent with two previous polls in
1995 and 1999, and conceal-and-carry
legislation is even more strongly
opposed in Northeast Ohio, where 73
percent of residents oppose the idea,
79 percent of urban residents oppose
it, and 85 percent of blacks oppose
any such proposal; and
Whereas, the number of crime victims who successfully use firearms
to defend themselves is relatively
small, more guns lead to more crime
or at least a much smaller reduction
in the crime rate, in Texas it was
found
that
the
weapon-related
offense rate among concealed hand-

898

May 9, 2001
gun license holders was more than
twice as high as that of the general population, and police officers
know that the very sight of a gun
can escalate a situation, and lead to
greater violence and injury; and
Whereas, laws allowing the carrying of concealed-weapons have
nothing to do with private firearms
ownership in the home, rather they
relate solely to allowing individuals
to carry their concealed guns almost
anywhere in the community, including churches, stores, malls, theaters,
parks, offices, City Hall, RTA, and
other public places; now therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes the passage of H.B. 225, or any
legislation that would change Ohio’s
concealed weapons prohibition. That
this Council also urges the Ohio
General Assembly to reject the proposed legislation, or any variation
of it, and urges Governor Taft to
veto any such legislation should it
be approved by the General Assembly. This Council urges Governor
Taft to announce that he will veto
the legislation should it reach his
desk.
Section 2. That copies of this
Resolution shall be provided by the
Clerk of Council to State Representative Tom Brinkman, the sponsor
of the bill, to the House and Senate
leadership, to Governor Taft, and
the Northeast Ohio delegation to the
General Assembly.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 765-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution appointing
an
assessment
equalization
board to hear objections to estimated assessments with respect to the
improvement of West 117th Street
from Madison Avenue to approximately 100 feet north of Clifton
Boulevard by constructing an amenity strip in the sidewalk and emplacing tree pockets along the public
right-of-way.
Whereas, this Council did, on the
12th day of February, 2001, duly
adopt
Resolution
No.
2124-2000,
declaring therein the necessity of
improvement of West 117th Street
from Madison Avenue to approximately 100 feet north of Clifton
Boulevard by constructing an amenity strip in the sidewalk and emplacing tree pockets along the public
right-of-way; and
Whereas, pursuant to said resolution, the estimated assessments for
said improvement have been prepared and placed on file in the office
of the Clerk of this Council; and
Whereas, notice of the passage of
said resolution and of the filing of
said estimated assessments has been
duly served upon all property owners to be assessed in the manner
provided by law; and

May 9, 2001
Whereas, written objection to said
estimated assessments have been
filed by one or more such property
owners; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ms. Magda Gomez,
Ms. Barbara Mullally and Ms. Bobbi
Reichtell, three disinterested freeholders of said City, be and the
same hereby are appointed as an
assessment equalization board, to
hear and determine all written
objections filed in accordance with
law to the estimated assessments
heretofore filed with the Clerk of
this Council pursuant to Resolution
No. 2124-2000 of this Council. Said
board is hereby authorized and
directed to equalize such assessments as it deems proper to conform to the standards prescribed by
Resolution No. 2124-2000 and by
law.
Section 2. That the assessment
equalization board shall meet at
10:00 o’clock, a.m. on 15th day of
May, 2001, at Cleveland City Hall,
601 Lakeside Avenue, Room 509, for
the purposes aforesaid, and upon
completion of such hearing and any
adjournments thereof, shall report
its recommendations, including any
changes which should be made in
the estimated assessments, to this
Council.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is authorized
and directed to notify, by certified
mail, each person who has filed
timely written objection to said estimated assessments of the time and
place of the hearing of the assessment equalization board.
Section 4. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 766-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 8615-17 Denison Front.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 97169300005, Judith H.
Withrow, DBA Rogers Grocery, 861517 Denison Front, Cleveland, Ohio
44102; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and

The City Record
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 97169300005, Judith H.
Withrow, DBA Rogers Grocery, 861517 Denison Front, Cleveland, Ohio
44102 and requests the Director of
Liquor Control to set a hearing for
said application in accordance with
provisions of Section 4303.26 of the
Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 767-01.
By Councilman White.
An emergency resolution withdrawing objection to the issuance of
a C1 Liquor Permit to 9911 Miles
Avenue, and repealing Res. No. 57101 objecting to said issuance.
Whereas, this Council objected to
the issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit
to 9911 Miles Avenue by Res. No.
571-01 adopted by Council March 26,
2001; and
Whereas, this Council wishes to
withdraw its objection to the above
issuance
and
consents
to
said
issuance; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

899

19
Section 1. That objection to the
issuance of a C1 Liquor Permit to
9911 Miles Avenue, be and the same
is hereby withdrawn and Res. No.
571-01, containing said objection, be
and the same is hereby repealed and
that this Council consents to the
immediate issuance thereof.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Res. No. 768-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution objecting to the issuance of a C2 Liquor
Permit to 12107-09 St. Clair Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control
of
an
application
for
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 74015602630, Rite Aid of
Ohio Inc., DBA Rite Aid Disc Pharm
2630,
12107-09
St.
Clair
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to Section
4303.26 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Council’s objection to said permit
must be received by the Director of
Liquor Control within 30 days of
notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby
record
its
objection
to
the
issuance of a C2 Liquor Permit to
Permit No. 74015602630, Rite Aid of
Ohio Inc., DBA Rite Aid Disc Pharm
2630,
12107-09
St.
Clair
Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44108 and requests

20
the Director of Liquor Control to set
a hearing for said application in
accordance with provisions of Section 4303.26 of the Revised Code of
Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 1963-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to install and maintain a
Kronos timekeeping system, including hardware, software, training
and project services, for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
labor and materials necessary to
install and maintain a Kronos timekeeping system, including hardware, software, training and project
services in the estimated sum of
$155,000, to be purchased by the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
various divisions of the Department
of Port Control. Bids shall be taken
in such manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
30904)

The City Record
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance
may be made through cooperative
agreements using state procedures.
The Director of Finance may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to effectuate
such cooperative efforts and may
enter into contract with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That upon execution of
the software license contract and
software
maintenance
contract
authorized herein, the Director of
Port Control shall provide the Chairman of the Aviation and Transportation Committee with a copy of
such contracts.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 2219-2000.
By Councilman Polensek.
An
emergency
ordinance
to
amend Sections 443.26 and 443.261 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by
Ordinance No. 1145-97, passed July
16, 1997 and Ordinance No. 2207-97,
passed December 15, 1997 relating
to rates of fare and receipts for
taxicabs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 443.26 and
443.261 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 1145-97, passed
July 16, 1997 and Ordinance No. 220797, passed December 15, 1997, respectively, are hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 443.26 Rates of Fare; Receipts
(a) The maximum rates of fare
for
gasoline
fueled
or
propane
fueled taxicabs shall be as follows:
(1) For the first one-sixth mile or
fraction thereof, one dollar and
eighty cents ($1.80).
(2) For each succeeding one quarter mile or fraction thereof, forty
cents ($.40).
(b)
Waiting Time or Traffic
Delay Charge. The rate for waiting
or traffic delay shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00) per hour except for
coaches hired at the hourly rate.
(c) Hourly Rate. Public hacks
may, upon request of passengers,
accept employment whereby the fare
to be asked may be computed on an
hourly rental. When a public hack
is so employed, the fare to be
charged shall be computed from the
time of leaving the nearest station
of the owner to the time of returning to the nearest station from the
point of dismissal.

900

May 9, 2001
(d) Receipt to be Given. Upon
request of a passenger, the owner,
driver, chauffeur or other person in
charge or control of a public hack
shall deliver to the person paying
for the hire of the same at the time
of such payment a receipt therefor
upon a blank, the form of which is
to be prescribed and approved by
the Commissioner of Assessments
and Licenses. The receipt shall contain in legible type or writing the
name of the owner, the City license
number, the driver’s City license
number and other items for which a
charge is made, the total amount
paid and the date of payment.
Section 443.261 Drivers’ Expenses
Capped; Reporting
(a) Finding. This Council finds
that the wages earned by drivers of
public hacks are inadequate to
insure a sufficient number of taxicabs and capable drivers, and that
the public convenience and necessity require the imposition of a cap
on the expenses paid by drivers of
public hacks.
(b) Definitions. As used in this
section:
(1) “Base rates” means the drivers’ expenses charged by a company, association or independent operator to its drivers on the date of passage of the ordinance that enacts
this section.
(2) “Drivers’ expenses” means all
costs, expenses and fees paid by drivers to a company, association or
independent
operator
currently
charged or hereafter established for
the lease of a public hack, and
includes, by way of example and not
by way of limitation, the costs of
the lease itself, insurance, surcharges, and fuel.
(c) Drivers’ Expenses Capped. For
the
period
of
January
1,
2001
through December 31, 2003 a company, association or independent
operator shall not increase its drivers’ expenses by more than five
percent (5%) over its “base rates”.
In the case of fuel only, changes
in the market price of the commodity may be passed along to drivers,
and any such increase shall not be
counted toward the caps imposed by
this division. Overhead costs associated with the sale of fuel by a company, association or independent
operator are subject to the caps
imposed by this division.
(d) Reporting. Within ten (10)
days after the effective date of this
section, each company, association
or independent operator shall submit a schedule of its base rates as
defined in division (b) of this section.
On or before December 31 in each
year subsequent to the effective
date of this section, each company,
association or independent operator
shall submit its then current drivers’
expenses, identifying any changes
to the same. The requirements of
this paragraph are satisfied by the
company, association or independent
operator by a certification of the
percentage
change
in
drivers’
expenses from the previous reporting period.
All reports required by this section shall be certified by an affidavit by the owner of the company,
association or independent operator,
on such forms as the Commissioner
of Assessments and Licenses shall
prescribe.

May 9, 2001
Section 2. That existing Section
443.26 of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by
Ordinance
No.
1145-97,
passed July 16, 1997, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That Section 443.261 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by this
ordinance shall expire and be of no
further force and effect on December 31, 2003.
Section 4. That Section 443.26 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended by this
ordinance, shall take effect and be
in force thirty (30) days after passage of this ordinance.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 86-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the
Director
of
Public
Health to apply for and accept a
grant
from
the
United
States
Department of Justice for the 2001
Cleveland Community Re-entry Program.
ªWhereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $46,195, from the United States Department of Justice,
OCJS, to conduct the 2001 Cleveland
Community Re-entry Program, for
the purposes set forth in the application and according thereto; that
the Director of Public Health is
hereby authorized to file all papers
and execute all documents necessary to receive the funds under said
grant; and that said funds be and
they hereby are appropriated for the
purposes set forth in the application
for said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 86-01-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide
cash matching funds in the Sum of
$15,399, payable from Fund No. 01500300-639905, is hereby approved in
all respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

The City Record
Ord. No. 136-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to employ one or more
environmental consultants and one
or
more
consultants
to
provide
asbestos evaluation and Phase I
environmental audits; and authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of clean-up and securing of
sites and the removal and disposal
of underground storage tanks, for
the Division of Building and Housing,
Department
of
Community
Development, for a period of one
year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to employ by contract
one or more environmental consultants or one or more firms of environmental consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly
employed staff of the several departments of the City of Cleveland in
order to provide professional services necessary to provide environmental compliance monitoring services in conjunction with the City’s
demolition program for a one year
period.
The selection of said consultant or
consultants for such services shall
be made by the Board of Control
upon the nomination of the Director
of Community Development from a
list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be
determined after a full and complete
canvass by the Director of Community Development for the purpose of
compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services
shall be fixed by the Board of Control. The contract herein authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law, approved by the Director of
Community Development, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to employ by contract
one or more consultants or one or
more firms of consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to provide asbestos
evaluation and Phase I environmental audit services in conjunction
with the City’s demolition program
for a one year period.
The selection of said consultant
or consultants for such services
shall be made by the Board of Control upon the nomination of the
Director of Community Development
from a list of qualified consultants
available for such employment as
may be determined after a full and
complete canvass by the Director of
Community Development for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Community Development, and certified by the Director of Finance.

901

21
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized
to
make
a
written
requirement contract in accordance
with the Charter and the Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
period of one year for the necessary items of clean-up and securing
of sites and the removal and disposal
of
underground
storage
tanks, in the estimated sum of
$200,000, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies upon a unit basis for the
Division of Building and Housing,
Department of Community Development. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to
be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract
for each or any combination of said
items as a single contract, or by
separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less
than one year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire term.
Section 4. That the cost of said
professional service contracts authorized in Sections 1 and 2 herein,
shall be paid from Fund No. 14 SF
026 and from the fund or funds to
which are credited any Community
Development
Block
Grant
funds
appropriated and approved for this
purpose and that the cost of said
requirement contract authorized in
Section 3 herein shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
account and the Director of Finance
shall certify thereon the amount of
the
initial
purchase
thereunder,
which purchase, together with all
subsequent purchases, shall be made
on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies pursuant to
a requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 20700)
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 300-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of Urban Forest property
maintenance services, for the Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to make a written requirement contract in accor-

22
dance with the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year for the necessary items of Urban Forest property maintenance services necessary
to maintain trees in the Vacant Lot
Program in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
year, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the Division
of Park Maintenance and Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties. Bids shall be taken
in such manner as to permit an
award to be made for all items as
a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $40,000 and
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder,
which
purchase,
together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
22865)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 302-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located at 2377, 2369 East
61st Street and the northerly part
of 6203 Quincy Avenue to Burten,
Bell, Carr Development Inc., or
designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-29-091,
118-29-093, 118-29-040 (Northerly part
of), as more fully described below,
to Burten, Bell, Carr Development
Inc., or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-091
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublots Nos. 73 and 74 in W.S. and
M.W. Chamberlain’s Allotment of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 334 and 335 as shown by
the recorded plat of said Allotment
in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 28 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records
and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the Easterly line of East 61st Street (formerly
Lodge
Avenue)
153
feet
Northerly from the intersection of
said Easterly line of East 61st
Street with the Northerly line of
Quincy
Avenue,
S.E.,
thence
Southerly long the Easterly line of
East 61st Street, 35 feet; thence
Easterly
and
parallel with
the
Northerly line of Quincy Avenue,
S.E., about 80 feet, 1/4 inch to the
Easterly line of Sublot No. 74;
thence Northerly along the Easterly
line of Sublot No. 74, 35 feet; thence
Westerly and parallel with the
Northerly line of Quincy Avenue
about 80 feet 1/4 inch to the Easterly line of East 61st Street and.
place of beginning. Said part of
Sublots Nos. 73 and 74 forming a
parcel of land having a frontage of
35 feet on the Easterly side of East
61st Street and extending back
between parallel lines about 80 feet
1/4 inch according to said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 118-29-093
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 81 in W.S. and M.W.
Chamberlain’s Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 334 and 335, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
28
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records.
Beginning on the Easterly line of
East 61st Street (formerly Lodge
Avenue) at the Northwesterly corner
of said Sublot No. 81; thence Southerly along said Easterly line of East
61st Street, 36 feet; thence Easterly
on a line parallel with the Northerly line of said Sublot No. 81, 80 feet
1/4 inches to the Westerly line of
land conveyed to Paul Spero by deed
dated April 30, 1906 and recorded in
Volume 997, Page 75 of Cuyahoga
County Records; thence Northerly
along said Westerly line of land so
conveyed to Paul Spero, 36 feet to
the Northerly line of said Sublot No.
81; thence Westerly along said
Northerly line of Sublot No. 81, 80
feet 1/4 inches to place of begin-

902

May 9, 2001
ning, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
P. P. No. 118-29-040
(Northerly part of)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 75 and 81 in the Chamberlain Allotment, Volume 3 Page
28, bounded, and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the Northerly right of way line of
Quincy Avenue (80 feet wide) and
the Easterly right of way line of
East 61st Street (60 feet wide);
thence North 00° 49' 18" West, along
the said right of way of East 61st
Street, a distance of 118.00 feet to a
point; thence South 89° 37' 33" East,
a distance of 80.08 feet to a point,
said point also being the place of
beginning for the parcel herein
described; thence North 00° 50' 43"
West, a distance of 107.40 feet to a
point; thence North 89° 22' 13" East,
a distance of 40.01 feet to a point;
thence South 00° 15' 21" East, a distance of 108.10 feet to a point;
thence North 89° 37' 33" West, a distance of 40.04 feet to the place of
beginning, and containing therein
4,312 square feet (0.0990 acre) of
land, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways and
easements of record.
Suhail and Suhail, Inc. prepared
this description, based on a survey
performed in February 2001.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

May 9, 2001
Ord. No. 439-01.
By Councilmen Reed, Rybka and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to accept a
cash gift from the Estate of Willie
Vivian Edwards to be used for college scholarships and the purchase
of staff shirts, video equipment, and
labor and materials to maintain and
repair video equipment at Zelma
Watson George Recreation Center.
Whereas, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties desires to
award scholarships, to be paid from
a cash gift made to the Zelma Watson George Recreation Center (“Center”), to graduating seniors attending Cleveland Public Schools and
participating in Center programs;
and
Whereas,
this
Council
hereby
finds that awarding such scholarships is a proper public purpose; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
any provision of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, to
the contrary, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties is hereby
authorized to accept on behalf of the
Division of Recreation, Zelma Watson George Recreation Center (“Center”) a cash gift in the amount of
$24,437.59, from the Estate of Willie
Vivian Edwards. That the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
is hereby authorized to file all
papers and execute all documents
necessary to receive the funds under
this gift; and that said funds are
hereby appropriated for the purpose
of awarding four (4) $500.00 scholarships per year for a period of ten
years to graduating seniors attending Cleveland Public Schools and
participating in Center programs
and purchasing for the Center staff
shirts, video equipment and labor
and materials necessary to maintain
and repair video equipment.
Section 2. That, upon expenditure
of any portion of the funds referenced herein, the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties shall provide a written report describing the
expenditure to the Councilman representing Ward 3.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 440-01.
By Councilmen Reed, Rybka and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a
property adoption agreement with
the Cleveland Baseball Federation
for improvements to Little League
Diamond No. 6 at Luke Easter Park.

The City Record
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 and
Section 133.24 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is hereby authorized to
enter into a property adoption agreement with the Cleveland Baseball
Federation for Little League Diamond No. 6 at Luke Easter Park.
The Cleveland Baseball Federation
may make improvements to the
adopted property, which improvements may include but not be limited to, installing a grass infield,
fencing, player benches and other
diamond accessories. The Cleveland
Baseball Federation shall maintain
the adopted property during the
term of the property adoption.
Section 2. That this property adoption shall not be construed as a conveyance of any right, title, or interest in public property, but is the
grant of a privilege revocable at the
will of Council.
Section 3. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
authorized to accept the gift of any
improvements
and
maintenance
made to the adopted property.
Section 4. That the property adoption agreement hereby authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain such additional terms and conditions as said
Director deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 441-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract
with
Boston
Mills
Ski
Resort to provide youth ski lessons
for the 2002 ski season, for the Division of Recreation, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract with Boston Mills Ski Resort
to provide youth ski lessons for the
2002 ski season, in the total sum of
$20,160.00, payable from Fund No. 01700401-638000, Request No. 32604.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

903

23
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 492-01.
By Councilmen Dolan and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to authorize the issuance and sale of subordinated airport revenue notes in the
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $46,000,000, in anticipation of
the issuance of bonds, to retire outstanding notes issued to pay costs
of acquiring real property and interests in real property for the purpose
of improving the Airport System.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 78-99 passed January 14, 1999,
the City issued $40,000,000 Taxable
Airport
Surplus
Revenue
Notes,
Series 1999 (“Outstanding Notes”)
for the purpose of acquiring real
property and interests therein for
the future expansion of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport; and
Whereas, the Outstanding Notes
mature on June 15, 2001 and it is
necessary to issue the Notes herein
authorized to retire the Outstanding
Notes and to do so as soon as possible to take advantage of favorable
conditions in the financial markets,
and, as a result, this Ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public property, health,
and safety and for the usual and
daily
operation
of
a
municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms elsewhere
defined in this Ordinance, unless the
context or use clearly indicates
another or different meaning or
intent:
“Airport” means Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, as it now
exists or hereafter may be changed,
modified, or expanded.
“Airport System” means the Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport,
as it now exists or hereafter may be
changed, modified or expanded.
“Book entry form” or “book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (i) the ownership of
book entry interests in Notes and the
principal of and interest on the
Notes
may
be
transferred
only
through a book entry, and (ii) physical Note certificates in fully registered form are issued by the City
only to a Depository or its nominee
as registered owner, with the Notes
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository. The book entry maintained by others than the City is the
record that identifies the owners of
book entry interests in those Notes
and that principal and interest.
“Certificate of Award” means, the
certificate authorized by Section 11,
to be signed by the Director of
Finance, setting forth and determining those terms or other matters pertaining to the Notes and
their issuance, sale, and delivery,
as
this
Ordinance
requires
or

24
authorizes to be set forth or determined therein.
“City” means the City of Cleveland, Ohio.
“Clerk” means the Clerk of Council of the City.
“Continuing
Disclosure
Certificate” means, collectively, the certificate or certificates authorized by
Section 14, which, together with the
agreements of the City set forth in
that Section, shall constitute the
continuing
disclosure
agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
the holders and book entry owners
of the Notes in accordance with the
Rule.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
a letter of credit, an insurance policy, or other credit enhancement or
liquidity device provided to enhance
the security or liquidity of the
Notes.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its Participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of book entry
interests in Notes or the principal
and interest, and to effect transfers
of Notes, in book entry form, and
includes and means initially The
Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New
York, New York.
“Director of Finance” means the
Director
of
the
Department
of
Finance of the City.
“Director
of
Law”
means
the
Director of the Department of Law
of the City.
“Director of Port Control” means
the Director of the Department of
Port Control of the City.
“Financial Advisor” means Carmona
Motley Hoffmann, Inc., or such other
financial advisor to the City selected
from time to time by the City.
“Indenture”
means
the
Trust
Indenture, dated as of November 1,
1976, between the City and The
Cleveland Trust Company, as original Trustee, together with all supplements thereto.
“Mayor” means the Mayor of the
City.
“Note Proceedings” means, collectively, this Ordinance, the Certificate of Award, the Purchase Agreement, any trust agreement, the Continuing Disclosure Certificate, and
such other proceedings of the City,
including the Notes, that provide collectively for, among other things,
the rights of holders and beneficial
owners of the Notes.
“Original Purchaser” means the
original purchasers of the Notes:
SBK-Brooks Investment Corp., A.G.
Edwards & Sons, Inc., Jackson Securities, and Goldman, Sachs & Co.
“Participant” means any participant contracting with a Depository
under a book entry system and
includes security brokers and dealers, banks and trust companies, and
clearing corporations.
“Project” means the acquisition of
real property and interests in real
property for the purpose of improving the Airport System, as more
specifically described in Ordinance
No. 77-99, passed by the Council on
January 14, 1999, which ordinance
amended Ordinance No. 68-94, passed
by the Council on January 18, 1994.
“Rule” means Rule 15c2-12, prescribed
by
the
Securities
and
Exchange Commission pursuant to
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

The City Record
“Subordinated Airport Revenue”
means the Airport Revenue (as
defined in the Indenture) deposited
in the Surplus Fund and/or the
Improvement Fund (both Funds as
created under Section 5.02 of the
Indenture), subject to any requirements of the Use Agreements (as
defined in the Indenture) for the
approval by the Airlines (as defined
in the Indenture) of, or lack of
objection by the Airlines to, the use
by the City of such deposits for the
Project.
Any reference herein to the City
or the Council of the City, the Director of Finance, the Director of Law,
the Clerk, or any other officers of
the City, shall include those who or
which succeed to the functions,
duties, or responsibilities thereof
pursuant to or by operation of law
or who or which are lawfully performing such functions, duties, or
responsibilities.
Unless the context shall otherwise
indicate, words importing the singular number shall include the plural number, and vice versa.
Section 2. The Bonds. It is necessary for the reasons set forth in the
preambles to this Ordinance to issue
bonds of this City in the aggregate
principal amount of not to exceed
$46,000,000 (the “Bonds”) to pay a
portion of the costs of the Project,
including costs of issuance of the
Bonds, to adequately fund any debt
service reserve fund that may be
established pursuant to Section 12,
and to retire the Notes (as defined
in Section 3 below). Interest on the
Bonds shall be payable semiannually until the principal amount is
paid. The Bonds are estimated to
mature
in
25
annual
principal
installments
that
are
in
such
amounts that the total principal and
interest payments on the Bonds in
any fiscal year in which principal is
payable are substantially equal. The
Bonds will be subordinated revenue
obligations of the City, the principal
of and interest on which will be
secured solely by, and payable solely from, Subordinated Airport Revenue. The Notes may be retired from
the proceeds of obligations issued
other than the Bonds or from other
moneys available for such purpose.
The Bonds or other obligations that
may be issued to retire the Notes
will have such terms as are provided in a subsequent ordinance of this
Council authorizing their issuance
and sale.
Section 3. Issuance of Notes. It is
necessary for the reasons set forth
in the preambles to this Ordinance,
and this Council determines, that
notes in the aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $46,000,000
(the “Notes”) shall be issued in
anticipation of the issuance of the
Bonds, the proceeds of which will be
used to retire the Outstanding Notes,
to pay costs of any Credit Support
Instrument with respect to the
Notes, to fund interest on the Notes
and any debt service reserve fund
established under Section 12, and to
pay costs of issuance of the Notes.
The Notes shall be issued in the
aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $46,000,000 that is determined
by the Director of Finance in the
Certificate of Award to be required
to be issued for the purposes stated
above in this Section, taking into

904

May 9, 2001
account other moneys available for
such purposes. The Notes shall be
dated the date of issuance or such
other date as is designated in the
Certificate of Award. The Notes
shall mature on a date to be determined by the Director of Finance in
the Certificate of Award in accordance with his determination of the
best interest of and financial advantages to the City, provided that such
date shall not be later than five
years from the date of issuance of
the Notes.
Section 4. Interest. The Notes shall
bear interest from their date at the
rate per annum set forth in the Certificate of Award, or if any Notes
bear interest at a variable rate, at
the rate determined pursuant to the
method set forth in the Certificate
of Award. Interest on the Notes
shall be payable on the dates determined by the Director of Finance in
the Certificate of Award and until
the principal amount is paid or payment is provided for. If any Notes
bear interest at a fixed rate, that
rate shall not exceed eight percent
(8%) per year (computed on the
basis of a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months) and interest
shall be payable not more often
than every six months and at maturity or at any earlier redemption
date. If any Notes bear interest at a
variable rate or rates, those rates
shall not exceed that set forth in
Section 5, and interest shall be
payable not more often than once a
month and following purchase and
at
maturity
or
at
any
earlier
redemption date.
Section 5. Variable Rate Notes. In
the event that the Director of
Finance determines that the City’s
best interests will be served by
causing all or a portion of the Notes
to be obligations bearing interest at
variable rates, redeemable by the
City without penalty or premium on
interest adjustment dates, then the
Director of Finance is authorized to
so specify in the Certificate of
Award. If the Director of Finance so
determines, then the Director of
Finance shall specify in the Certificate of Award the method and procedure by which the variable rate of
interest to be borne by the variable
rate Notes shall be determined,
whether by reference to a market
index, by a remarketing agent or
otherwise; provided that the variable rate Notes shall not bear interest at a rate in excess of twelve percent (12%) per annum. That maximum interest rate shall not apply to
variable rate Notes during any period those Notes are held by a
provider of a Credit Support Instrument because they could not be
remarketed and the terms of the
Credit Support Instrument do not
permit such a maximum rate of
interest. Holders of variable rate
Notes may be given the right to tender their variable rate Notes for
purchase by the City at the times,
on the terms, and subject to the conditions set forth in the Certificate of
Award and any tender agreement;
provided that tender rights shall be
exercisable only at such times as a
Credit Support Instrument is in
place that provides for the payment
of the purchase price payable to the
tendering holder of a variable rate
Note. If the Director of Finance des-

May 9, 2001
ignates any Notes as variable rate
Notes, and if the holders of the variable rate Notes are to be entitled to
tender the variable rate Notes for
purchase,
then
the
Director
of
Finance shall also designate in the
Certificate of Award for those variable rate Notes the provider or
providers for any Credit Support
Instrument, the tender agent or
agents and the remarketing agent
or agents, which designations shall
be based on the determination of the
Director of Finance that the parties
so designated possess the requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Notes,
and from time to time thereafter so
long as the variable rate Notes are
outstanding, with providers of Credit
Support
Instruments,
tender
agents (which may be the Registrar), remarketing agents, and others as may be determined by the
Director of Finance to be necessary
or appropriate to provide for the
method of determining the variable
interest rates, permitting holders
the right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support for the payment of the variable rate Notes upon
tender for purchase or redemption,
and providing for the repayment by
the City of any amounts drawn
under the Credit Support Instrument.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
the Notes, and regardless of the
Notes bearing interest at variable or
fixed rates, is authorized to contract
for a Credit Support Instrument, and
to pay the costs of it from proceeds
of the Notes, if he determines that
the Credit Support Instrument will
result in a savings in the cost of
this financing to the City.
Section
6.
Payment
of
Debt
Charges on the Notes; Redemption.
The debt charges on the Notes shall
be payable in lawful money of the
United States of America, or in Federal Reserve funds of the United
States of America as determined by
the Director of Finance in the Certificate of Award, and shall be
payable, without deduction for services of the Registrar (as defined in
Section 7) as the City’s paying
agent. If agreed to by the Original
Purchaser, the Notes shall be subject to redemption without penalty
or premium at the option of the City
in whole or in part at any time prior
to maturity as provided in this Ordinance.
If fewer than all of the Notes of
a
single
maturity
are
to
be
redeemed, the selection of Notes of
that maturity to be redeemed, or
portions thereof in amounts of the
minimum authorized denomination
or any integral multiple thereof,
shall be made by lot in a manner
determined by the Registrar. In the
case of a partial redemption of
Notes by lot when Notes of denominations greater than the minimum
authorized denomination are then
outstanding, each unit of principal
thereof in the amount of the minimum
authorized
denomination
shall be treated as if it were a sep-

The City Record
arate Note of the denomination of
the minimum authorized denomination. If it is determined that one or
more, but not all, of the units of
principal amount in the amount of
the minimum authorized denomination represented by a Note are to
be called for redemption, then,
upon notice of redemption of such
unit or units, the registered owner
of that Note shall surrender the
Note to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption price of
such unit or units of principal
amount
called
for
redemption
(including, without limitation, the
interest accrued to the date fixed
for
redemption),
and
(ii)
for
issuance, without charge to the
registered owner, of a new Note or
Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the
unmatured and unredeemed portion
of, and bearing interest at the
same rate and maturing on the
same date as, the Note surrendered.
The notice of the call for redemption of Notes shall identify (i) by
designation, letters, numbers, or
other
distinguishing marks, the
Notes or portions thereof to be
redeemed, (ii) the redemption price
to be paid, (iii) the date fixed for
redemption, and (iv) the place or
places where the amounts due upon
redemption are payable. The notice
shall be given by the Registrar on
behalf of the City by mailing a
copy of the redemption notice by
first class mail, postage prepaid, at
least 30 days prior to the date fixed
for redemption, to the registered
owner of each Note subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Note Register (as
defined in Section 7) maintained by
the Registrar at the close of business on the 15th day preceding that
mailing. Failure to receive notice
by mail or any defect in that notice
regarding any Note, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Note.
In
the
event
that
notice
of
redemption shall have been given
by the Registrar to the registered
owners as provided above, there
shall be deposited with the Registrar on or prior to the redemption
date, moneys that, in addition to
any other moneys available therefor
and held by the Registrar, will be
sufficient to redeem at the redemption price thereof, plus accrued
interest to the redemption date, all
of the redeemable Notes for which
notice
of
redemption
has
been
given. Notice having been mailed in
the manner provided in the preceding paragraph hereof, the Notes and
portions thereof called for redemption shall become due and payable
on the redemption date, and, upon
presentation and surrender thereof
at the place or places specified in
that notice, shall be paid at the
redemption
price,
plus
accrued
interest to the redemption date. If
moneys for the redemption of all of
the Notes and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with accrued
interest thereon to the redemption
date, are held by the Registrar on
the redemption date, so as to be
available therefor on that date and,
if notice of redemption has been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid,
then from and after the redemption

905

25
date those Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease
to bear interest and no longer shall
be considered to be outstanding. If
those moneys shall not be so available on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those
Notes and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All moneys
held by
the Registrar
for the
redemption of particular Notes shall
be held in trust for the account of
the registered owners thereof and
shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of
those Notes.
Section 7. Registrar. The Director
of Finance shall designate a bank
or trust company to act as the
authenticating
agent,
registrar,
transfer agent, and paying agent for
the Notes after determining that the
payment at that bank or trust company will not endanger the funds or
securities of the City and that proper procedures and safeguards are
available for that purpose (the
“Registrar”).
The
Director
of
Finance shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a registrar agreement or agreements between the City and the
Registrar (the “Registrar Agreement”) in a form consistent with
this Ordinance and as approved by
the Director of Law. In the event
that a trust agreement secures the
Notes, as provided in Section 12, the
Registrar Agreement may be incorporated in such trust agreement.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Registrar Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose.
The Notes shall be issued only as
fully registered Notes. Principal on
the Notes shall be payable when
due upon presentation and surrender of the Notes at the designated
office of the Registrar designated
in the Registrar Agreement. Interest on each Note shall be paid on
each
interest payment
date
by
check or draft mailed to the person
in whose name the Note was registered, and to that person’s address
appearing on the Note Register
(defined below in this Section) at
the close of business on the 15th
day of the calendar month next preceding that interest payment date.
The City will cause the Registrar to
maintain and keep all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange, and transfer of
Notes as provided in this Section
(the “Note Register”) so long as any
of the Notes remain outstanding.
Subject to the provisions of this Section, the person in whose name a
Note is registered on the Note Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Note for all
purposes of the Note Proceedings.
Payment of or on account of the
debt charges on any Note shall be
made only to or upon the order of
that person; neither the City nor the
Registrar shall be affected by any

26
notice to the contrary, but the registration may be changed as provided in this Section. All such payments shall be valid and effectual
to satisfy and discharge the City’s
liability upon the Note, including
interest, to the extent of the amount
or amounts so paid.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
and so long as the Notes are issued
in a book entry system, principal
of and interest on the Notes shall
be payable in the manner provided
in any agreement entered into by
the Director of Finance, in the
name and on behalf of the City, in
connection with the book entry system.
Section 8. Transfer and Exchange
of Certain Notes. Notes may be
exchanged for Notes of any authorized denomination upon presentation and surrender at the office designated by the Registrar, together
with a request for exchange signed
by the registered owner or by a person legally empowered to do so in
a form satisfactory to the Registrar. A Note may be transferred
only on the Note Register upon presentation and surrender of the Note
at the office designated by the Registrar together with an assignment
signed by the registered owner or
by a person legally empowered to
do so in a form satisfactory to the
Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer, the Registrar shall complete,
authenticate, and deliver a new
Note or Notes, of any authorized
denomination or authorized denominations requested by the owner
equal in the aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Note
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Notes only after the new
Notes are signed by the authorized
officers of the City. In all cases of
Notes exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Notes
in accordance with the provisions of
the Note Proceedings. The exchange
or transfer shall be without charge
to the owner, except that the City
and Registrar may make a charge
sufficient to reimburse them for any
tax or other governmental charge
required to be paid with respect to
the exchange or transfer. The City
or the Registrar may require that
those charges, if any, be paid before
the procedure is begun for the
exchange or transfer. All Notes
issued and authenticated upon any
exchange or transfer shall be valid
special obligations of the City, evidencing the same debt, and entitled
to the same security and benefit
under the Note Proceedings, as the
Notes
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer. Neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
required to make any exchange or
transfer of a Note during the period
beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the
mailing of a notice of redemption of
Notes and ending at the close of
business on the day of such mailing
or to transfer or exchange any Note
selected for redemption in whole or
in part.

The City Record
Section 9. Book Entry. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Ordinance, if it is determined
by the Director of Finance to be in
the best interests of and financially
advantageous to the City, the Notes
may be issued in book entry form
in accordance with the provisions of
this Section. As used in this Section
and this Ordinance:
The Notes may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry
system and, if and as long as a
book entry system is utilized, (i)
the Notes may be issued in the
form of a single, fully registered
Note representing each maturity
and registered in the name of the
Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in
the custody of the Depository; (ii)
the book entry interest owners of
Notes in book entry form shall
have no right to receive Notes in
the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iii) ownership of book
entry interests in book entry form
shall be shown by book entry on
the system maintained and operated by the Depository and its Participants, and transfers of the ownership of book entry interests shall
be made only by book entry by the
Depository and its Participants;
and (iv) the Notes as such shall
not be transferable or exchangeable, except for transfer to another Depository or to another nominee of a Depository, without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Notes for use in a book
entry
system,
the
Director
of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Director of Finance, after
making provision for notification of
the book entry interest owners by
the then Depository and any other
arrangements
deemed
necessary,
shall permit withdrawal of the
Notes from the Depository, and
authenticate and deliver note certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its
nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance also is
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the Notes,
after determining that the signing
thereof will not endanger the funds
or securities of the City and after
the approval of the form of any
such agreement by the Director of
Law.
Section 10. Execution of Notes.
Notes shall be signed by the Mayor
and the Director of Finance, in the
name of the City and in their official capacities, provided that either
or both of those signatures may be
a facsimile, and shall bear the seal
of the City or a facsimile thereof;
provided that no Note shall be valid
or obligatory for any purpose or
shall be entitled to any security or
benefit under the Note Proceedings
unless and until the certificate of

906

May 9, 2001
authentication printed on the Note is
signed by the Registrar as authenticating agent, and authentication
by the Registrar shall be conclusive
evidence that the Note so authenticated has been duly issued, signed
and delivered under, and is entitled
to the security and benefit of, the
Note Proceedings. The certificate of
authentication may be signed by
any authorized officer or employee
of the Registrar or by any other person acting as an agent of the Registrar and approved by the Director
of Finance on behalf of the City.
The same person need not sign the
certificate of authentication on all
of the Notes.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Notes and shall
endorse thereon his approval of the
form and correctness thereof by his
manual or facsimile signature. The
Notes shall be issued in the denominations as requested by the Original Purchaser and approved by the
Director of Finance, in conformity
with this Ordinance. The entire
principal amount may be represented by a single note and may be
issued as fully registered securities
and in book entry or other uncertificated form if it is determined by
the
Director
of
Finance
that
issuance of fully registered securities in that form will facilitate the
sale and delivery of the Notes. The
Notes may be issued in the authorized denominations of either (a)
$100,000 each or in any denomination that is the sum of (i) $100,000
and (ii) $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof, and not exchangeable
for other Notes in denominations
less than $100,000, or (b) $5,000 or
any integral multiple thereof, as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Certificate of Award
to be in the best interests of the
City. The Notes shall not have
coupons attached, shall be numbered as determined by the Director
of Finance and shall express upon
their faces the purpose, in summary terms, for which they are issued
and that they are issued pursuant
to this Ordinance.
Section 11. Sale of Notes. That the
Notes are hereby awarded to the following underwriters in the following percentages: SBK-Brooks Investment Corp., Senior Manager, (40%);
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., Co-Manager, (20%), Jackson Securities, CoSenior Manager, (20%), and Goldman,
Sachs
&
Co.,
Co-Manager,
(20%). The following firms are
hereby designated to serve as underwriters’ counsel to the Original Purchasers in the following percentages: Vorys, Sater, Seymour and
Pease LLP, (85%) and David Hill
and Associates, (15%). The Notes
shall be sold at not less than 97%
of par plus accrued interest at private sale by the Director of Finance
to the Original Purchaser in accordance with law and the provisions
of this Ordinance. If, in the reasonable opinion of the Director of
Finance, an underwriter is incapable of fully performing its duties
or meeting its obligations in its
capacity as Original Purchaser with
respect to the Notes, the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatev-

May 9, 2001
er action may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser. The Director
of Finance shall sign the Certificate
of Award referred to in this Ordinance, evidencing that sale to the
Original Purchaser, cause the Notes
to be prepared, and have the Notes
signed and delivered, together with
a true transcript of proceedings
with reference to the issuance of the
Notes if requested by the Original
Purchaser, to the Original Purchaser upon payment of the purchase
price. The Director of Finance is
authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a note purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser, or representative thereof (the
“Purchase Agreement”), in a form
consistent with this Ordinance and
as approved by the Director of Law.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Purchase Agreement from the proceeds of the Notes to the extent
available
and
then
from
other
money lawfully available and appropriated or to be appropriated for
that purpose. The Mayor, the Director of Finance, the Clerk, the Director of Law, and other City officials,
as appropriate, are each authorized
and directed to sign any transcript
certificates,
financial
statements
and other documents and instruments and to take such actions as
are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance.
Section 12. Security for the Notes.
The Notes are special obligations of
the City. The interest on the Notes,
unless paid from other sources
available to the City, is secured
solely by, and is payable solely
from proceeds of the Notes or Bonds
or the Subordinated Airport Revenue.
The principal of the Notes, unless
paid from other sources available to
the City, is payable solely from the
proceeds of the Bonds. The City
covenants and agrees to do all
things
necessary
to
effect
the
issuance and delivery, prior to the
maturity of the Notes, of the Bonds
or any renewal notes, in that principal amount as may be necessary,
together with any other moneys
available to the City for the purpose, to pay the principal of the
Notes when due at maturity and to
do all things necessary to sell the
Bonds in sufficient time to permit
their delivery prior to the maturity
of the Notes. The par value to be
received from the sale of the Bonds
or of any renewal notes and any
excess funds resulting from the
issuance of the Notes shall, to the
extent necessary, be used to pay the
debt charges on the Notes at maturity and are pledged for that purpose. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the City covenants and agrees to
issue Additional Revenue Bonds on
a
parity
with
Airport
Revenue
Bonds (all as defined in the Indenture) to retire the Notes, if and to
the extent the City can satisfy the
conditions
precedent
under
the
Indenture for the issuance of Additional Revenue Bonds. Further, if
the Director of Finance determines,

The City Record
based on the written advice of the
Financial Advisor, that under conditions of the market at that time, the
Bonds cannot be issued with reasonable terms, the City covenants
and agrees that it will issue obligations payable from other City
sources to retire the Notes at maturity.
The City shall not be obligated to
pay principal of and interest on the
Notes from any funds or sources
other than those described in this
Section, and the Notes shall not be
a claim upon or lien against any
other property of the City. The
Notes, as to both principal and
interest, are not general obligations
of the City, and the full faith and
credit of the City is not pledged to
their payment. The holders of the
Notes shall have no right to have
taxes levied by the City for the payment of principal of and interest on
the Notes. Nothing herein, however,
shall be deemed to prohibit the
City, of its own volition, from
using, to the extent that it is authorized by law to do so, any other
resources for the fulfillment of any
of the terms, conditions, or obligations of this Ordinance or of the
Notes.
The City will observe and perform all its agreements and obligations provided for by the Notes or
this Ordinance. All of the obligations under this Ordinance are hereby established as duties specifically enjoined by law and resulting
from an office, trust, or station
upon the City within the meaning
of
Section
2731.01 of
the Ohio
Revised Code.
In the event that the interest on
the Notes is to be provided for from
Note proceeds, or if in the judgment
of the Director of Finance, after consultation with the Financial Advisor, a debt service reserve to secure
the Notes is in the best interest of
and financially advantageous to the
City, the City shall enter into a trust
agreement with the bank or trust
company serving as Registrar for
the Notes and providing for a debt
service fund or debt service reserve
fund, as applicable, to be held by
that bank or trust company, in its
capacity as trustee, and such fund
or funds are hereby authorized. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, the trust agreement in
a form consistent with this Ordinance and approved by the Director
of Law. The Mayor, Director of
Finance, Director of Port Control
and other City officials, as appropriate, are authorized to take such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate such additional security for the Notes. Such trust
agreement may be supplemental to
the Indenture. The City hereby
covenants and agrees to appropriate
annually from the Subordinated Airport Revenue into any such funds
amounts sufficient to maintain the
balances
required
by
the
trust
agreement and to restore any deficiency therein.
Section 13. Note Proceeds. The pro ceeds from the sale of the Notes are
appropriated and shall be used for
the purpose for which the Notes are
being issued. Any portion of the pro-

907

27
ceeds to be used to pay interest on
the Notes or to make a required
deposit to a debt service reserve
fund shall be paid into the debt service fund and debt service reserve
fund, respectively, created pursuant
to Section 12.
Section 14. Disclosure. If, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
after consultation with the Financial Advisor and the Original Purchaser, an official statement or
other disclosure document is appropriate relating to the initial offering
of
the
Notes,
the
Director
of
Finance, on behalf of the City and
in that officer’s official capacity, is
authorized to (i) cooperate with the
Original Purchaser in the preparation of, and the making of modifications, completions or changes of
or supplements to, such a disclosure
document, (ii) determine, and to certify or otherwise represent, when
the disclosure document is to be
deemed final or is final, (iii) authorize the use and distribution of that
disclosure document and any supplements thereto in connection with
the initial offering of the Notes, and
(iv) sign certificates, statements or
other documents in connection with
the finality, accuracy, and completeness of that disclosure document.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Notes, the City agrees, as the
only obligated person with respect
to the Notes under the Rule, to provide or cause to be provided such
financial information and operating
data, audited financial statements
and notices, in such manner, as may
be required for purposes of paragraph (b)(5)(i) of the Rule. In
order to describe and specify certain
terms of the City’s continuing disclosure agreement for that purpose,
and
thereby
to
implement
that
agreement, including provisions for
enforcement, amendment, and termination, the Director of Finance is
authorized and directed to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, and if required under
the Rule, a Continuing Disclosure
Certificate or Certificates in conformance
with
the
reporting
requirements of the Rule. The agreement formed, collectively, by this
paragraph and that Certificate, shall
be the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for purposes of the Rule,
and its performance shall be subject
to the annual appropriation of any
funds that may be necessary to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further authorized and directed to
establish procedures in order to
ensure compliance by the City with
its
continuing
disclosure
agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices.
Prior to making any filing in accordance with that agreement or providing notice of the occurrence of
any other events, the Director of
Finance
shall
consult with,
as
appropriate, the legal counsel and
bond or other qualified independent
special counsel to the City. The
Director of Finance, acting in the
name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such

28
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Section 15. Ratings, Insurance,
and Other Credit Enhancement. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance after consultation with the
Original Purchaser, the filing of an
application for a rating on the Notes
by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies or a Credit
Support Instrument is in the best
interest of, and financially advantageous to, the City, the Director of
Finance is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications, to
provide to each such agency, company or Credit provider such information as may be required for the
purpose. The cost of obtaining each
rating and Credit Support Instrument, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchaser in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
shall be paid from the proceeds of
the Notes.
Section 16. Interest Rate Swaps,
Hedges and Caps. For the purpose
of achieving the optimal available
debt structure for the Notes, the
Director of Finance may, based on
the written advice of the Financial
Advisor, enter into one or more
agreements in connection with or
subsequent to the issuance of the
Notes for an interest rate swap, an
interest rate cap or other such
arrangement to lower the effective
interest rate on the obligations to
the City or to hedge the exposure of
the City against fluctuations in prevailing interest rates, provided, however, that: (i) the debt structure that
is simulated through the combination of the Notes with any such
agreements shall comply with the
restrictions of this Ordinance on the
terms of and security for the Notes
applied to that structure as though
it consisted solely of Notes; (ii) the
counterparty to any swap agreement
and the provider of any interest rate
cap shall have a rating of at least
“A” by either Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or Standard & Poor’s Corporation; (iii) no such agreement
shall purport to entitle the counterparty to the agreement to payment
by the City from any source other
than the sources which secure the
Notes as described in this Ordinance;
(iv) the cost of obtaining any such
interest rate cap or other such
arrangement shall have been determined by the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of the
Financial Advisor, to be justified by
the corresponding benefit to the
City and to be commercially reasonable based on then current market conditions. The notional amount
on which any such agreement is
based shall not be subject to the
limitations set forth herein on the
maximum principal amount of the
Notes.
Section 17. Tax Covenants. In the
event that the Notes are issued and
sold as obligations bearing interest that is excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, the covenants in this Section
17 shall govern. However, if the
Notes are issued and sold as obligations bearing interest that is
included in gross income for fed-

The City Record
eral income tax purposes, the City
shall
not
be
bound
by
the
covenants of this Section with
respect to the Notes.
Subject to the foregoing, the City
covenants that it will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the proceeds of the Notes in such
manner and to such extent as may
be necessary so that (a) the Notes
will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge
bonds under Sections 141, 148 or 149
of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the Code) or (ii)
be treated other than as bonds to
which Section 103(a) of the Code
applies, and (b) the interest on the
Notes will not be treated as an item
of tax preference under Section 57
of the Code. The City further
covenants that (a) it will take or
cause to be taken such actions that
may be required of it for the interest on the Notes to be and remain
excluded from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it
will not take or authorize to be
taken
any
actions
that
would
adversely affect that exclusion, and
(c) it, or persons acting for it, will,
among other acts of compliance, (i)
apply the proceeds of the Notes to
the governmental purpose of the
borrowing, (ii) restrict the yield on
investment property,
(iii)
make
timely and adequate payments to
the federal government, (iv) maintain books and records and make
calculations and reports and (v)
refrain from certain uses of those
proceeds, and, as applicable, of
property financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to
the extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the
Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Notes is hereby
authorized (a) to make or effect
any election, selection, designation,
choice, consent, approval, or waiver
on behalf of the City with respect
to the Notes as the City is permitted to or required to make or give
under the federal income tax laws,
including, without limitation thereto, any of the elections provided for
in Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code
or available under Section 148 of the
Code, for the purpose of assuring,
enhancing or protecting favorable
tax treatment or status of the Notes
or interest thereon or assisting compliance with requirements for that
purpose, reducing the burden or
expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or payments
or penalties, or making payments of
special amounts in lieu of making
computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing and signed by the officer, (b)
to take any and all other actions,
make or obtain calculations, make
payments,
and
make
or
give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Notes, and (c) to give one or more
appropriate certificates of the City,

908

May 9, 2001
for inclusion in the transcript of
proceedings for the Notes, setting
forth the reasonable expectations of
the City regarding the amount and
use of all the proceeds of the Notes,
the facts, circumstances and estimates on which they are based, and
other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Notes.
Section 18. Captions, Headings,
and Section References. The captions and headings in this Ordinance
are solely for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit, or
describe the scope or intent of any
Sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, or clauses hereof.
Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.
Section 19. Interpretation. Any pro visions of the Codified Ordinances
of the City which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the Notes
authorized herein. Nothing in this
Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall be applied in any
manner as would, impair the obligation of contract of the City with
respect to any outstanding bonds,
notes, certificates of indebtedness,
other obligations, trust indentures,
trust agreements, or other agreements or contracts made or entered
into by the City.
Section 20. Satisfaction of Conditions. This Council determines that
all acts and conditions necessary to
be done or performed by the City
or to have been met precedent to
and in the issuing of the Notes in
order to make them legal, valid,
and binding special obligations of
the City have been performed and
have been met, or will at the time
of delivery of the Notes have been
performed and have been met, in
regular and due form as required
by law, and that no limitation of
indebtedness
or
taxation, either
statutory
or
constitutional,
is
applicable to the issuance of the
Notes.
Section 21. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council finds and determines that all
formal actions of this Council and
any of its committees concerning
and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken in an open
meeting of this Council or committees, and that all deliberations of
this Council and any of its committees that resulted in those formal actions were in meetings open
to the public, all in compliance with
the law.
Section 22. Emergency. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an
emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

May 9, 2001
Ord. No. 495-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the 2002 Federal Child Lead Poison
Prevention Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $350,000, from the
Ohio Department of Health, to conduct the 2002 Federal Child Lead
Poison Prevention Program, for the
purposes set forth in the application
and according thereto; that the
Director of Public Health is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 495-01-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation to
devote program income from first
and third party billings, estimated
at $60,000, is hereby approved in all
respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 548-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of de-icer, for the Division
of Park Maintenance and Properties,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties, for a period not to
exceed one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year of the necessary items of de-icer, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Park Maintenance and Properties, Department
of Parks, Recreation and Properties. Bids shall be taken in such

The City Record
manner as to permit an award to
be made for all items as a single
contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a
period less than one year may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of
Purchases and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $30,000
and shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order
of the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies pursuant to a requisition against such contract duly certified by the Director of Finance.
(RL 12199)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 619-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of fasteners, for the various divisions of City government,
for a period not to exceed one
year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year of the necessary items of fasteners, in the approximate amount
as purchased during the preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the various
divisions of City government. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than one year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $130,000
and shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which pur-

909

29
chase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
43002)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 620-01.
By Councilman and Patmon (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of exterminating services,
for the various divisions of City
government, for a period not to
exceed one year.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract
in accordance with the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements
for the period of one year of the necessary items of exterminating services, in the approximate amount as
purchased
during
the
preceding
term, to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
upon a unit basis for the various
divisions of City government. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than one year
may be taken if deemed desirable by
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $40,000 and
shall be charged against the proper
appropriation account and the Director of Finance shall certify thereon
the amount of the initial purchase
thereunder,
which
purchase,
together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on order of the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
pursuant
to
a
requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
43005)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

30
Ord. No. 658-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Parkworks to provide an
Adult Basic Landscaping Training
Program in order to carry out the
public purpose of providing job
training through the use of Ward 3
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Parkworks to provide an Adult
Basic Landscaping Training Program in order to carry out the public purpose of providing job training
through the use of Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $40,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 749-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
ONDP Cuyahoga County Task Force
to stretch one (1) banner between
Euclid Ave. & London Rd. near Good
Shepard Church using C.P.P. utility
poles (by separate permission) for
the period of April 24, 2001 to May
4, 2001, inclusive publicizing the
“National Day of Prayer”.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to ONDP Cuyahoga County Task Force, P.O. Box
81321, Cleveland, Ohio 44181, to
install, maintain and remove one (1)
banner to be hung using Cleveland
Public Power utility poles, (by separate permission) publicizing the
“National Day of Prayer” for the
period of April 24, 2001 to May 4,
2001, inclusive, and which banners
are to be hung at the following pole
locations and numbers: on Euclid
Avenue at London Road, near the
Good Shepherd Baptist Church, a

The City Record
vinyl banner with two-sided text,
pole numbers NH-3-57-14-1-1, and NH3-57-14-1-1-A; which poles and locations shall be approved by the Director of Public Service in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a banner will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said banner,
and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 750-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
The Cleveland Catholic Diocese, for
Our Lady of Mt. Carmel Church to
hang approximately (20) twenty
banners on the north & south sides
of Detroit Avenue using C.P.P. utility poles (by separate permission)
for the period of April 4, 2001 to May
4, 2001, inclusive, publicizing their
Church’s 75th Anniversary in service
to the community.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to The Cleveland Catholic Diocese for Our Lady
of Mt. Carmel Church, 6928 Detroit
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44102,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105, to install,
maintain and remove approximately
twenty (20) banners to be hung
using Cleveland Public Power utility poles, (by separate permission)
publicizing
their
Church’s
75th
Anniversary in service to the community for the period of April 11,
2001 to May 11, 2001, inclusive, and
which banners are to be hung at the
following pole locations and numbers: on the north side of Detroit
Avenue at 6902 Detroit, pole #TT-38;
Church Driveway, pole #TT-39; 6928
Detroit, pole #TT-40; Church Bldg.,
pole #TT-41; 7000 Detroit, pole #TT42; 7006 Detroit, pole #TT-43; Berry’s
Parking Lot, pole #TT-44, 7200
Detroit, pole #TT-45; 6901 Detroit,
pole #TT-3 (4875); 6907 Detroit,
pole#TT-4; 6917 Detroit, pole #TT-5;
6929
Detroit,
pole
#TT-6;
7001
Detroit,
pole
#TT-7;
McDonalds
Restaurant on Detroit Avenue, pole
#TT-8; Auto Parts Store Parking Lot
on Detroit Avenue, pole #TT-9,

910

May 9, 2001
Across from Detroit Avenue from
Berry’s Funeral Home, pole #TT-10;
and which poles and locations shall
be approved by the Director of Public Service in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner, and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

Ord. No. 751-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance to repeal
Ordinance No. 454-01, passed March
12, 2001.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 45401, passed March 12, 2001, is hereby
repealed.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otheiwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed April 30, 2001.
Effective May 7, 2001.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Thursday, May 3, 2001
City
Planning
Committee:
1:30
p.m.—Present:
Cimperman,
Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman; Reed,
White. Excused: Dolan, Jackson,
O’Malley.
Wednesday, May 9, 2001
Aviation & Transportation Committee: 10:00 a.m.—Present: Dolan,
Chairman; O’Malley, Vice Chairman;
Brady,
Jones,
Patmon,
Rybka,
Sweeney.
City Planning Committee (Zoning):
1:00 p.m.—Present: Cimperman, Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman; Dolan,
Jackson, O’Malley, Reed, White.
City
Planning
Committee:
1:30
p.m.—Present:
Cimperman,
Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman; Dolan,
Jackson, O’Malley, Reed, White.

The City Record

May 9, 2001

31

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Aging Department
Western Reserve Area Agency 2001 — Grant (O 613-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Agreements
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan Area — acquisition, clearance &
redevelopment — MRN Ltd. (O 27-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885

Animals
Trapping services — Division of Environment (O 540-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Assessment Equalization Board
Appointment — Gomez, Magda; Mullally Barbara; Reichtell, Bobbi — sidewalk assessments —
objection (R 765-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898

Banners
Detroit Business District — Cudell Improvement, Inc. (O 85-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Lady of Mt. Carmel Church — 75th Anniversary (O 750-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
National Day of Prayer — ONDP Cuyahoga County Task Force (O 749-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

Board of Control — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Brookpark waterline relocation for Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — amend BOC
Res. 83-01 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 287-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Board of Control — Cleveland Public Power Division
Meters and metering equipment — contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Wesco
Distribution, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 285-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Meters and metering equipment — contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Pepco — Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 286-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Board of Control — Community Development Department
East 79th Street, 1174/76/78 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-32-163/164/165 — to The House of God, The
Church of the Living Good, The Pillar and the Ground of the Truth, The House
of Prayer for All People, Inc. of Kentucky pursuant to Ord. 87-01
(BOC Res. 301-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
East 83rd Street. 2229/33/37/39 (Ward 6) — PPN 119-29-168/169/170/17 — to Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation pursuant to Ord. 133-2000
(BOC Res. 300-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Luther Avenue, 5906 (Ward 7) — PPN 104-17-159 — to Joanne Teague pursuant to Ord. 305-01
(BOC Res. 302-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Miles Avenue, 11105 (Ward 2) — PPN 137-18-052 (westerly half) — amend BOC Res.
379-00 (BOC Res. 298-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Platt Avenue, (Ward 6) — PPN 126-01-023 — to Kenneth Harris
(BOC Res. 299-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control — Finance Department
Year 2000 Project (Phase III) — amend Contract #54536 pursuant to BOC Res. 1080-97 and
398-99 — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 303-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

911

The City Record

32

May 9, 2001

Board of Control — Highland Park Cemetery
Highland Park Cemetery Mausoleum masonry restoration — contract pursuant to Ord. 1422-98
to Envirocom Construction Inc. — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 297-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program
East 79th Street, 1174/76/78 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-32-163/164/165 — to The House of God, The
Church of the Living Good, The Pillar and the Ground of the Truth, The House
of Prayer for All People, Inc. of Kentucky pursuant to Ord. 87-01
(BOC Res. 301-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
East 83rd Street, 2229/33/37/39 (Ward 6) — PPN 119-29-168/169/170/17 — to Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation pursuant to Ord. 133-2000
(BOC Res. 300-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Luther Avenue, 5906 (Ward 7) — PPN 104-17-159 — to Joanne Teague pursuant to Ord. 305-01
(BOC Res. 302-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Miles Avenue, 11105 (Ward 2) — PPN 137-18-052 (westerly half) — amend BOC Res.
379-00 (BOC Res. 298-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Platt Avenue, (Ward 6) — PPN 126-01-023 — to Kenneth Harris
(BOC Res. 299-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 2)
Miles Avenue, 11105 (Ward 2) — PPN 137-18-052 (westerly half) — amend BOC Res.
379-00 (BOC Res. 298-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 6)
East 83rd Street. 2229/33/37/39 (Ward 6) — PPN 119-29-168/169/170/17 — to Fairfax
Renaissance Development Corporation pursuant to Ord. 133-2000 (BOC Res. 300-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Platt Avenue, (Ward 6) — PPN 126-01-023 — to Kenneth Harris (BOC Res. 299-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control — Land Reutilization Program (Ward 7)
East 79th Street, 1174/76/78 (Ward 7) — PPN 105-32-163/164/165 — to The House of God, The
Church of the Living Good, The Pillar and the Ground of the Truth, The House
of Prayer for All People, Inc. of Kentucky pursuant to Ord. 87-01
(BOC Res. 301-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Luther Avenue, 5906 (Ward 7) — PPN 104-17-159 — to Joanne Teague pursuant to Ord. 305-01
(BOC Res. 302-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
Board of Control — Mercedes Cotner Park
Mercedes Cotner Park site improvements — contract pursuant to Ord. 849-99 and 1728-2000
to R. DiLillo & Company — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of
Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 296-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control — Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division
Cab / chassis with aerial bucket / chip dump body — contract pursuant to Ord. 1685-2000
and 99-01 to Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 282-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Cushman-Ransome parts and labor — amend BOC Res. 196-01 — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 288-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Gasoline — contract pursuant to Ord. 134-01 to Fleet Supplies, Inc. — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 290-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Gasoline — contract pursuant to Ord. 134-01 to Petroleum Traders Corporation — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 289-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Board of Control — Park Maintenance and Properties Division
Cab / chassis with aerial bucket / chip dump body — contract pursuant to Ord. 104-2000
to Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc. — Division of Park Maintenance and Properties,
Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 294-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Vacant lot maintenance program — amend BOC Res. 263-01 — Division of Park Maintenance
and Properties, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 292-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890

912

May 9, 2001

The City Record

33

Board of Control — Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Cab / chassis with aerial bucket / chip dump body — contract pursuant to Ord. 104-2000
to Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc. — Division of Park Maintenance and
Properties, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 294-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Fence (pool deck) improvements — amend BOC Res. 503-00 — Division of Research, Planning
and Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 291-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Food items — contract pursuant to Ord. 2156-2000 to Hillcrest Food Service —
Division of Recreation, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 293-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Highland Park Cemetery Mausoleum masonry restoration — contract pursuant to Ord. 1422-98
to Envirocom Construction Inc. — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 297-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Meals for summer food program — contract pursuant to Ord. 2156-2000 to Tom Paige Catering
Company — Division of Recreation, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (BOC Res. 295-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Mercedes Cotner Park site improvements — contract pursuant to Ord. 849-99 and 1728-2000
to R. DiLillo & Company — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of
Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 296-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Vacant lot maintenance program — amend BOC Res. 263-01 — Division of Park Maintenance
and Properties, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 292-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890

Board of Control — Port Control Department
Brookpark waterline relocation for Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — amend BOC
Res. 83-01 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 287-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

Board of Control — Professional Service Contracts
Year 2000 Project (Phase III) — amend Contract #54536 pursuant to BOC Res. 1080-97 and
398-99 — Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 303-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Board of Control — Public Improvement Contracts
Brookpark waterline relocation for Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — amend BOC
Res. 83-01 — Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port
Control (BOC Res. 287-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Chamberlin Water Tower demolition — amend BOC Res. 271-01 — Division of Water, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 283-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Fence (pool deck) improvements — amend BOC Res. 503-00 — Division of Research, Planning
and Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 291-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Highland Park Cemetery Mausoleum masonry restoration — contract pursuant to Ord. 1422-98
to Envirocom Construction Inc. — Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 297-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Mercedes Cotner Park site improvements — contract pursuant to Ord. 849-99 and 1728-2000
to R. DiLillo & Company — Division of Research, Planning and
Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 296-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891

Board of Control — Public Service Department
Cab / chassis with aerial bucket / chip dump body — contract pursuant to Ord. 1685-2000
and 99-01 to Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 282-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Cushman-Ransome parts and labor — amend BOC Res. 196-01 — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 288-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Gasoline — contract pursuant to Ord. 134-01 to Fleet Supplies, Inc. — Division of
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 290-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
Gasoline — contract pursuant to Ord. 134-01 to Petroleum Traders Corporation — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 289-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

913

The City Record

34

May 9, 2001

Board of Control — Public Utilities Department
Chamberlin Water Tower demolition — amend BOC Res. 271-01 — Division of Water, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 283-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meters and metering equipment — contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Wesco
Distribution, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 285-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meters and metering equipment — contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Pepco — Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 286-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains and appurtenances (Area C), repair of — contract pursuant to Ord. 1415-99 to
Utilicon Corporation — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 284-01) . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 889
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Board of Control — Recreation Division
Food items — contract pursuant to Ord. 2156-2000 to Hillcrest Food Service — Division of
Recreation, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 293-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Meals for summer food program — contract pursuant to Ord. 2156-2000 to Tom Paige Catering
Company — Division of Recreation, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (BOC Res. 295-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Board of Control — Requirement Contracts
Cab / chassis with aerial bucket / chip dump body — contract pursuant to Ord. 1685-2000
and 99-01 to Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc. — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 282-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cushman-Ransome parts and labor — amend BOC Res. 196-01 — Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 288-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Food items — contract pursuant to Ord. 2156-2000 to Hillcrest Food Service — Division of
Recreation, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 293-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gasoline — contract pursuant to Ord. 134-01 to Fleet Supplies, Inc. — Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 290-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gasoline — contract pursuant to Ord. 134-01 to Petroleum Traders Corporation — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 289-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meals for summer food program — contract pursuant to Ord. 2156-2000 to Tom Paige Catering
Company — Division of Recreation, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (BOC Res. 295-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meters and metering equipment — contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Wesco
Distribution, Inc. — Division of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 285-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meters and metering equipment — contract pursuant to C.O. Sec. 129.26 to Pepco — Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 286-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vacant lot maintenance program — amend BOC Res. 263-01 — Division of Park Maintenance and
Properties, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 292-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains and appurtenances (Area C), repair of — contract pursuant to Ord. 1415-99 to
Utilicon Corporation — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 284-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 890

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 889

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 890

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Board of Control — Research, Planning and Development Division
Fence (pool deck) improvements — amend BOC Res. 503-00 — Division of Research, Planning
and Development, Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties
(BOC Res. 291-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Mercedes Cotner Park site improvements — contract pursuant to Ord. 849-99 and 1728-2000
to R. DiLillo & Company — Division of Research, Planning and Development, Dept. of
Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 296-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 891
Board of Control — Standard Purchase Contracts
Cab / chassis with aerial bucket / chip dump body — contract pursuant to Ord. 104-2000
to Valley Ford Truck Sales, Inc. — Division of Park Maintenance and Properties,
Dept. of Parks, Recreation and Properties (BOC Res. 294-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 890
Board of Control — Water Division
Chamberlin Water Tower demolition — amend BOC Res. 271-01 — Division of Water, Dept. of
Public Utilities (BOC Res. 283-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Water mains and appurtenances (Area C), repair of — contract pursuant to Ord. 1415-99 to
Utilicon Corporation — Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities
(BOC Res. 284-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

914

May 9, 2001

The City Record

35

Board of Zoning Appeals — Report
Dellbank Drive, 6301, (Ward 16) — Robert W. Beech, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
5/7/01 (Cal. 01-70). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Detroit Avenue, 3219, (Ward 14) — Athletic Ventures of Ohio, Inc., owner c/o David Peifer
— appeal postponed to 6/4/01 on 5/7/01 (Cal. 01-68) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 140th Street, 619-625, (Ward 10) — Fayez H. Sammour, owner — appeal heard on 5/7/01
(Cal. 01-74). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 152nd Street, 576, (Ward 10) — Thomas Gettings, owner — appeal denied and adopted
on 5/7/01 (Cal. 01-69) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 17th Street, 1743, (Ward 13) — Med-All, Inc., c/o Nick Hill, owner — appeal heard
on 5/7/01 (Cal. 01-67) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 59th Street, 3712, (Ward 12) — Divna Cosas, owner, and Horodysky Associates, agent
— appeal postponed to 5/29/01 on 5/7/01 (Cal. 01-44) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 2230, (Ward 5) — Trustees of the Episcopal Diocese of Ohio, owner c/o
Edward Leader — appeal withdrawn on 5/7/01 (Cal. 01-71) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hillgrove Avenue, 18012, (Ward 11) — Kevin Marrie, owner — appeal heard on 5/7/01
(Cal. 01-72) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lee Road, 3887, (Ward 1) — Uniontown Kids Creative Learning Center c/o Sherry Wingfield,
owner — appeal postponed to 5/29/01 on 5/7/01 (Cal. 01-26) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parkridge Avenue, 6005, (Ward 16) – Jerrold L. Zarlenga, owner — appeal granted and
adopted on 5/7/01 (Cal. 01-75) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ruby Avenue, 3402, (Ward 16) — Donald White, owner — appeal heard on 5/7/01
(Cal. 01-73). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sherry Avenue, 13420, (Ward 20) — Sharon Minter, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
5/7/01 (Cal. 01-65). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Smalls, Christopher L. — appeal granted and adopted on 5/7/01
(Cal. 01-51). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
South Waterloo Road, 16300, (Ward 11) — Michael Liptack, owner — appeal withdrawn
on 5/7/01 (Cal. 01-39) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Spring Road, 511, (Ward 15) — Pat Manco, owner — appeal granted and adopted on
5/7/01 (Cal. 01-64). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 44th Street, 3305, (Ward 14) — Ronald Edvon, owner — appeal denied and adopted on
5/7/01 (Cal. 01-66). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893

Board of Zoning Appeals — Schedule
Dellenbaugh Avenue, 7201-7327, (Ward 7) — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority, c/o
Steve Oladeji — appeal to be heard on 5/21/01 (Cal. 01-80) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st Street, 1425-1457, (Ward 7) — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority, c/o
Steve Oladeji — appeal to be heard on 5/21/01 (Cal. 01-82) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Van Aken Boulevard, 2776A, (Ward 4) — GMS Management Company, Inc., owner c/o Stuart J.
Graines — appeal to be heard on 5/21/01 (Cal. 01-87) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wade Park Avenue, 7200-7324, (Ward 7) — Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority, c/o
Steve Oladeji — appeal to be heard on 5/21/01 (Cal. 01-81) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 110th Street, 1391, (Ward 18) — H.S.C. General Partnership, owner c/o Elizabeth
Kohout — appeal to be heard on 5/21/01 (Cal. 01-85) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 893
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 892

Bonds
Airport Revenue Notes — issuance and sale — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 492-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Building and Housing Division
Asbestos evaluation and environmental audits — Phase I — consultants — (O 136-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
City of Cleveland Bids
Debris, disposal at landfills — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per
Ord. 946-99 — bid due May 23, 2001 (advertised 5/9/2001 and 5/16/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 55th Street rehabilitation (Phase III — Superior Avenue to South Marginal Road) —
Department of Public Service — Division of Engineering and Construction — per Ord.
1588-2000 — bid due May 17, 2001 (advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elevator maintenance and repair — Department of Public Health — per Ord. 1683-2000 — bid
due May 30, 2001 (advertised 5/9/2001 and 5/16/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elevator maintenance at City Hall — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties
— Division of Property Management — per Ord. 297-01 — bid due May 30, 2001
(advertised 5/9/2001 and 5/16/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Golf carts — Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties — Division of Recreation —
per Ord. 80-01 — bid due May 23, 2001 (advertised 5/9/2001 and 5/16/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Messenger services — Department of Finance — bid due May 17, 2001
(advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

915

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

The City Record

36

May 9, 2001

Meter reading computer readers — Department of Public Utilities — Division of Cleveland
Public Power — per Ord. 1678-2000 — bid due May 17, 2001
(advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meyer snow plow and spreader parts and labor — Department of Public Service — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1822-99 — bid due May 18, 2001
(advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MSA and AIM gas detection equipment and calibration systems, maintainance and service of
— Department of Public Utilities — Division of Water — per Ord. 2105-2000 — bid due
May 30, 2001(advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pharmaceutical supplies — Department of Public Health — per Ord. 1804-2000 — bid due June
1, 2001(advertised 5/9/2001 and 5/16/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Refuse packer body (25-cubic yard) replacement — Department of Public Service — Division
of Motor Vehicle Maintenance — per Ord. 1685-2000 and 99-01 — bid due June 1,
2001 (advertised 5/9/2001 and 5/16/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential Sound Insulation Program (RSIP) Group C-01 — Department of Port Control —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — per Ord. 469-98 — bid due May
23, 2001 (advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Residential Sound Insulation Program (RSIP) Group D-01 — Department of Port Control —
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — per Ord. 469-98 — bid due May
23, 2001 (advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Road rehabilitation — Department of Public Service — Division of Engineering and
Construction — per Ord. 1284-99 and 730-2000 — bid due May 24, 2001
(advertised 5/9/2001 and 5/16/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Towing services — Department of Public Service — Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance
— per Ord. 366-01 — bid due May 18, 2001 (advertised 5/2/2001 and 5/9/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 894

City Planning Commission
Euclid-Prospect Area Community Development Plan — additional amendments
(O 870-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
NASA Facilities for Runway 5L/23R — permits for demolition, relocation and construction
(O 2015-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Ord. No. 454-01 — repeal (O 751-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Codified Ordinances
Taxicabs — rates — amend Section 443.26 (O 2219-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
Community Development
Asbestos evaluation environmental audits — Phase I — consultants (O 136-01) . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid-Prospect Area Community Development Plan — additional amendments
(O 870-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid/Prospect II Community Development Plan Area — acquisition, clearance &
redevelopment — MRN Ltd. (O 27-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neighborhood revitalization activities — Kamms Corners Dev. Corp. — contract
— amend (O 444-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — grant (O 615-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parkworks — adult basic landscaping training program — Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity
(O 658-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 883
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 885
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Fund
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

Cudell Improvement
Detroit Business District — banners (O 85-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
Finance Department
Exterminating services — various divisions (O 620-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Fasteners — various divisions (O 619-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Grants
Cleveland Community Re-entry Program 2001 — United States Department of
Justice (O 86-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diabetes Action Plan Program — Minority Health Commission (O 538-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Environment Division Operation-Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (O 541-01) . . . . .
Federal Child Lead Poison Prevention Program 2002 — Ohio Department of Health
(O 495-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — Community Development (O 615-01)
Western Reserve Area Agency 2001 — Director of Aging (O 613-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

916

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

May 9, 2001

The City Record

37

Health Department
Animal trapping services — Division of Environment (O 540-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Cleveland Community Re-entry Program 2001 — grant — United States Department of Justice
(O 86-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Diabetes Action Plan Program — grant — Minority Health Commission (O 538-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Environment Division operation- grant — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(O 541-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887
Federal Child Lead Poison Prevention Program 2002 — grant — Ohio Department of Health
(O 495-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909

House Bills
Concealed weapons — H.B. 225 — oppose (R 764-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Oil and gas exploration — Great Lakes — H.R. 1032 (R 762-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897

Land Reutilization Program
E. 61st St., 2377, 2369 — 6203 Quincy Ave. — Burten, Bell, Carr Development Inc
(O 302-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901

Liquor Permits
Bridge Ave., 5718 — objection (R 758-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Cedar Ave., 8716 — objection — withdraw (R 753-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Denison Front, 8615-17 — objection (R 766-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
E. 105th St., 1204 — objection (R 759-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
E. 185th St., 910 — objection (R 761-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
E. 55th St., 1795 — objection (R 757-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Linwood, 7038 — objection (R 756-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Miles Ave., 9911 — objection — withdraw (R 767-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
St. Clair Ave., 12107-09 — objection (R 768-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
W. 14th St., 3146 — objection — withdraw (R 754-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Wade Park Ave., 9200 Unit EA10 — objection (R 755-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Waterloo Rd., 15504 — objection (R 760-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897

Neighborhood Equity Funds
Parkworks — adult basic landscaping training program — Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity Fund
(O 658-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

Ohio Department of Public Health
Federal Child Lead Poison Prevention Program 2002 — grant — Ohio Department of Health
(O 495-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
Environment Division Operation — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency — grant
(O 541-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Parks Maintenance Division
De-icer (O 548-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909

Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Luke Easter Park — Little League Diamond No. 6 — Cleveland Baseball Federation —
improve (O 440-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
De-icer (O 548-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 909
Ski lessons — Boston Mills Ski Resort — Year 2002 (O 441-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Urban Forest property maintenance services — Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
(O 300-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901
Willie Vivian Edwards’ Estate — college scholarships — Zelma Watson George Recreation
Center (O 439-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903

917

The City Record

38

May 9, 2001

Port Control Department
Airport Revenue Notes — issuance and sale — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 492-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Kronos timekeeping system — install and maintain (O 1963-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 900
NASA Facilities for Runway 5L/23R — permits for demolition, relocation, and construction
(O 2015-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 884
Ord. No. 454-01 — repeal (O 751-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

Repealed Ordinances & Resolutions (Non Codified)
Ord. No. 454-01 — wages — prevailing rates (O 751-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

Resolutions — Miscellaneous
Concealed weapons — H.B. 225 — oppose (R 764-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Historic property rehabilitation tax credit — Ohio State Legislature — proposal — support
(R 317-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888
Labor unions — support (R 763-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898
Oil and gas exploration — Great Lakes — H.R. 1032 (R 762-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters — lay, re-lay, repair (R 140-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Service Department
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters — lay, re-lay, repair (R 140-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Sidewalks
Sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters — lay, re-lay, repair (R 140-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Tax Credits
Historic property — rehabilitation — Ohio State Legislature — proposal — support
(R 317-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 888

Ward 02
Miles Ave., 9911 — Liquor Permit — objection — withdraw (R 767-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899

Ward 03
Luke Easter Park — Little League Diamond No. 6 — Cleveland Baseball Federation —
improve (O 440-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903
Parkworks — adult basic landscaping training program — Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity Fund
(O 658-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910
Willie Vivian Edwards’ Estate — college scholarships — Zelma Watson George Recreation
Center (O 439-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 903

Ward 05
E. 61st St., 2377, 2369 — 6203 Quincy Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Burten,
Bell, Carr Development Inc (O 302-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 901

Ward 06
Cedar Ave., 8716 — Liquor Permit — objection — withdraw (R 753-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895

Ward 07
E. 55th St., 1795 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 757-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Linwood, 7038 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 756-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895
Wade Park Ave., 9200 Unit EA10 — Liquor Permit — objection
(R 755-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895

Ward 08
E. 105th St., 1204 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 759-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896

918

May 9, 2001

The City Record

39

Ward 09
St. Clair Ave., 12107-09 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 768-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899

Ward 10
National Day of Prayer — ONDP Cuyahoga County Task Force — banner
(O 749-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

Ward 11
E. 185th St., 910 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 761-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897
Waterloo Rd., 15504 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 760-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 897

Ward 13
W. 14th St., 3146 — Liquor Permit — objection — withdraw (R 754-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 895

Ward 17
Bridge Ave., 5718 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 758-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 896
Lady of Mt. Carmel Church — 75th Anniversary — banners
(O 750-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 910

Ward 18
Denison Front, 8615-17 — Liquor Permit — objection (R 766-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 899
Detroit Business District — Cudell Improvement, Inc. — banners
(O 85-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886
W. 117th St. — sidewalk assessments — objections — Assessment Equalization Board —
appointment (R 765-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 898

Weatherization Program
State Home Weatherization Assistance Program — grant — Community Development
(O 615-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging
Western Reserve Area Agency 2001 — Director of Aging — grant
(O 613-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 887

PPPP

