The City Record
O fficial Publication of the City of Cleve l a n d
June the Twentieth, Two Thousand and One

Mayor
Michael R. White

President of Council
Michael D. Polensek
Clerk of Council
Ruby F. Moss
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Name
Joseph T. Jones
Robert J. White
Zachary Reed
Kenneth L. Johnson
Frank G. Jackson
Patricia J. Britt
Fannie M. Lewis
William W. Patmon
Craig E. Willis
Roosevelt Coats
Michael D. Polensek
Edward W. Rybka
Joe Cimperman
Nelson Cintron, Jr.
Merle R. Gordon
Michael C. O’Malley
Timothy J. Melena
Jay Westbrook
Dona Brady
Martin J. Sweeney
Michael A. Dolan

Printed on Recycled Paper

Containing

PAGE

City Council
3
The Calendar
47
Board of Control
47
Civil Service
50
Board of Zoning Appeals
50
Board of Building Standards
and Building Appeals
51
Rules of the Department
of Parks, Recreation
and Properties
51
Public Hearings
52
City of Cleveland Bids
52
Adopted Resolutions
and Ordinances
53
Committee Meetings
131
Index
132

PRESORTED STANDARD
U. S. POSTAGE PAID
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Permit No. 1372

DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
Ward
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

CITY COUNCIL–LEGISLATIVE
President of Council–Michael D. Polensek
Name
Residence
Joseph T. Jones ......................................4691 East 177th Street
Robert J. White .....................................3760 East 126th Street
Zachary Reed..........................................3232 East 119th Street
Kenneth L. Johnson .................................2948 Hampton Road
Frank G. Jackson ....................................2327 East 38th Street
Patricia J. Britt ...........................................12402 Britton Drive
Fannie M. Lewis..............................................7416 Star Avenue
William W. Patmon ...................................867 East Boulevard
Craig E. Willis .........................................11906 Beulah Avenue
Roosevelt Coats.........................................1775 Cliffview Road
Michael D. Polensek .................................17855 Brian Avenue
Edward W. Rybka ..................................6832 Indiana Avenue
Joe Cimperman........................................3053 West 12th Street
Nelson Cintron, Jr.........................................3004 Vega Avenue
Merle R. Gordon.......................................1700 Denison Avenue
Michael C. O’Malley................................6710 Brookside Drive
Timothy J. Melena ........................6110 West Clinton Avenue
Jay Westbrook ...................................10513 Clifton Boulevard
Dona Brady.................................................3466 Bosworth Road
Martin J. Sweeney ................................3632 West 133rd Street
Michael A. Dolan ..................................16519 West Park Road
Clerk of Council – Ruby F. Moss, 216 City Hall, 664–2840.
First Assistant Clerk – Sandra Franklin.

44128
44105
44120
44120
44115
44120
44103
44108
44106
44112
44119
44105
44113
44113
44109
44144
44102
44102
44111
44111
44111

MAYOR – Michael R. White
Judith Zimomra, Chief of Staff
Barry Withers, Executive Assistant for Administration
Susan E. Axelrod, Senior Executive Assistant for Health and Human Services
Kenneth Silliman, Executive Assistant for Development
Nicholas P. Jackson, Executive Assistant for Services
Nina Turner, Executive Assistant for Legislative Affairs
Marvin Hayes, Executive Assistant for Intergovernmental Affairs
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of Equal Opportunity
DEPT. OF LAW – Cornell P. Carter, Director, Pinky Carr, Chief Counsel,
Room 106
Lauren Moore, Chief City Prosecutor; Criminal Branch – Justice Center
8th Floor, Court Towers, 1200 Ontario Street
Karen E. Martines, Law Librarian, Room 100
DEPT. OF FINANCE – Kelly Clark, Director, Room 104;
Frank Badalamenti, Manager, Internal Audit
DIVISIONS – Accounts – Marilyn Henderson, Commissioner, Room 19
City Treasury – Algeron Walker, Treasurer, Room 115
Assessments and Licenses – Robert C. Brown, Commissioner,
Room 122
Purchases and Supplies – Myrna Branche, Commissioner, Room 128
Printing and Reproduction – Diante Fritzgerald, Acting Commissioner,
1735 Lakeside Avenue
Taxation – Nassim Lynch, Tax Administrator, 1701 Lakeside Avenue
Financial Reporting and Control – Robert Dolan, Controller, Room 18
Information Systems Services – Daniel Jarvis, Commissioner,
1404 E. 9th St.
DEPT. OF PUBLIC UTILITIES – Michael Konicek, Director, 1201 Lakeside
Avenue
DIVISIONS – 1201 Lakeside Avenue
Water – Julius Ciaccia, Jr., Commissioner
Water Pollution Control – Darnell Brown, Commissioner
Utilities Fiscal Control – Morry Blech, Commissioner
Cleveland Public Power – James F. Majer, Commissioner
Street Lighting Bureau – Frank Schilling, Acting Chief.
DEPT. OF PORT CONTROL – Reuben Sheperd, Director,
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, 5300 Riverside Drive;
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport – Mark D. Vanloh, Commissioner
Burke Lakefront Airport – Khalid Bahkur, Commissioner
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SERVICE – Mark Ricchiuto, Director, Room 113
DIVISIONS – Waste Collection and Disposal – Ron Owens, Commissioner,
5600 Carnegie Avenue.
Traffic Engineering & Parking – Robert Mavec, Commissioner,
4150 East 49th Street, Building #1
Streets – Randell T. Scott, Commissioner, Room 25
Engineering and Construction – Randall E. DeVaul, Commissioner,
Room 518
Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Daniel A. Novak, Commissioner,
Harvard Yards
Architecture – Kurt Weibusch, Commissioner, Room 517
DEPT. OF PUBLIC HEALTH – Michele C. Whitlow, Director, Mural Building
1925 St. Clair Avenue
DIVISIONS – Health – Cheri Hahn, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Environment – Donald Culp, Commissioner, Mural Building,
1925 St. Clair Avenue
Correction – Thomas Hardin, Commissioner, Cleveland House of
Corrections, 4041 Northfield Road
DEPT. OF PUBLIC SAFETY – Henry Guzmán, Director, Room 230.
DIVISIONS \ Police \ Martin L. Flask, Chief, Police Hdqtrs. Bldg.,
1300 Ontario Street
Fire – Kevin G. Gerrity, Chief, 1645 Superior Avenue
Dog Pound – John Baird, Chief Dog Warden, 2690 W. 7th Street
Emergency Medical Service – Edward Eckart, Commissioner,
1708 South Pointe Drive
DEPT. OF PARKS, RECREATION & PROPERTIES – Alfred T. Miller, Jr.,
Director, Cleveland Convention Center, Clubroom A, 1220 E. 6th St.
DIVISIONS – Convention Center & Stadium – James Glending,
Commissioner, Public Auditorium, E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Property Management – Tom Nagle, Commissioner, East 49th & Harvard

Parking Facilities – Dennis Donahue, Commissioner, Public Auditorium,
E. 6th and Lakeside Ave.
Park Maintenance and Properties – Richard L. Silva, Commissioner, Public
Auditorium – E. 6th & Lakeside.
Recreation – Michael Cox, Commissioner, Room 8
Research, Planning & Development – Mark Fallon, Commissioner, 1501
N. Marginal Road, Burke Lakefront Airport
DEPT. OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT – Linda M. Hudecek, Director,

3rd Floor, City Hall.
DIVISIONS – Administrative Services – Terrence Ross, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Services – Louise V. Jackson, Commissioner.
Neighborhood Development – Donald T. Moss, Commissioner.
Building & Housing – Robert Vilkas, Commissioner, 5th Floor, City Hall.
DEPT. OF PERSONNEL AND HUMAN RESOURCES – Jeffrey K. Patterson, Director,

Room 121
DEPT. OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT – Christopher P. Warren, Director,

Room 210
DEPT. OF AGING – Dolores Alexander, Director, Room 122
COMMUNITY RELATIONS BOARD – Room 11, Dennis D. Dove, Director; Mayor

Michael R. White, Chairman Ex–Officio; Mary Adele Springman,
Vice–Chairman; Councilman Dona Brady, Councilman Joe Cimperman,
City Council Representatives; Rev. Bruce Goode, Paula Castleberry,
Charles E. McBee, Mary Adele Springman, Esq., Terez E. Woods, Emmett
Saunders, John Banno, Mary Jane Buckshot, Kathryn M. Hall, Raymond
Negron, Evangeline Hardaway, Edna Fuentes-Casiano, Janet Jankura,
Gia Hoa Ryan.
CIVI L SERV ICE COMMISSION – Ro om 1 19, An ne Blo ombe rg, Preside nt;
__________________________, Vice President; Gregory J. Wilson, Secretary;

Timothy J. Cosgrove, Member, Rev. Earl Preston, Member.
SINKING FUND COMMISSION – Michael R. White, President; Betsy Hruby, Asst.

Sec’y.; _______________, Director; Council President Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS – Room 516, Carol Johnson, Chairman; Members;

Chris Carmody, Margreat Hopkins, Ozell Dobbins, Tony Petkovsek,
Eugene Cranford, Jr., Secretary.
BOARD OF BUILDING STANDARDS AND BUILDING APPEALS – Room 516, J. F.

Denk, Chairman; J. Bowes, James Williams, Alternate Members – D. Cox,
P. Frank, E. P. O’Brien, Richard Pace, Arthur Saunders, J.S. Sullivan.
BOARD OF REVISION OF ASSESSMENTS – Law Director Cornell P. Carter,

President; Finance Director Kelly Clark, Secretary; Council President
Michael D. Polensek.
BOARD OF SIDEWALK APPEALS – Service Director Mark Ricchiuto; Law

Director Cornell P. Carter; Councilman Nelson Cintron, Jr.
BOARD OF REVIEW – (Municipal Income Tax) – Law Director Cornell P.

Carter; Utilities Director Michael Konicek; Council President Michael D.
Polensek.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION – Room 501 – Hunter Morrison, Director;
Anthony J. Coyne, Acting Chairman; David Bowen, Lillian W. Burke,
Lawrence A. Lumpkin, Gloria Jean Pinkney, Rev. Edward D. Small,
Councilman Joseph Cimperman.
CLEVELAND BOXING AND WRESTLING COMMISSION – Robert Jones,
Chairman; Clint Martin, Mark Rivera.
MORAL CLAIMS COMMISSION – Law Director Cornell P. Carter; Chairman;
Finance Director Kelly Clark; Council President Michael D. Polensek;
Councilman Bill Patmon; Councilman Martin J. Sweeney.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF ELECTRICIANS – Samuel Montfort, Chairman;
Donald Baulknilght, Anton J. Eichmuller, J. Gilbert Steele, Raymond
Ossovicki, Chief Electrical Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the
Board.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS OF PLUMBERS – Joseph Gyorky, Chairman; Earl
S. Bumgarner, Alfred Fowler, Jozef Valencik, Lawrence Skule, Chief
Plumbing Inspector; Laszlo V. Kemes, Secretary to the Board.
CLEVELAND LANDMARKS COMMISSION – Room 519 – Richard Schanfarber,
Chairman; Paul Volpe, Vice Chairman; N. Kurt Wiebush, James Gibans,
Sandra Morgan, Hunter Morrison, Theodore Sande, Galen Schuerlein,
Randall Shorr, Councilman Joseph Cimperman, Councilman Timothy J.
Melena, Robert Keiser, Executive Secretary.
CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL COURT JUSTICE CENTER–1200 ONTARIO
CENTRAL SCHEDULING DEPARTMENT
JUDGE COURTROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Judge
Courtroom
Presiding and Administrative Judge Larry A. Jones
13C
Judge Ronald B. Adrine
15A
Judge C. Ellen Connally
15C
Judge Ann Marie Feighan
12B
Judge Sean C. Gallagher
12C
Judge Mabel M. Jasper
14D
Judge Kathleen Ann Keough
13D
Judge Mary E. Kilbane
14C
Judge Ralph J. Perk, Jr.
14B
Judge Raymond L. Pianka (Housing Court Judge)
13B
Judge Angela R. Stokes
13A
Judge Robert J. Triozzi
14A
Judge Joseph J. Zone
12A
Earle B. Turner – Clerk of Courts, Linda M. DeLillo–Court Administrator,
Robert C. Townsend, II–Bailiff; Kenneth Thomas–Chief Probation Officer,
Michelle L. Paris–Chief Magistrate

The City Record
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE CITY OF CLEVELAND

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 20, 2001

Vol. 88

No. 4567

CITY COUNCIL
MONDAY, JUNE 18, 2001
The City Record

WEDNESDAY—Alternating

Published weekly under authority
of the Charter of the
City of Cleveland
Subscription (by mail) $75.00 a year
January 1 to December 31
Interim subscriptions prorated
$6.25 per month
Address all communications to

10:00 A.M.—Aviation & Transportation Committee: Dolan, Chairman;
O’Malley, Vice Chairman; Brady,
Jones, Patmon, Rybka, Sweeney.
10:00 A.M.—Public Safety Committee:
Polensek, Chairman; Patmon, Vice
Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats,
Gordon, Jackson, Melena, Sweeney.

RUBY F. MOSS
Clerk of Council
216 City Hall

PERMANENT SCHEDULE
STANDING COMMITTEES
OF THE COUNCIL
1998-2001
MONDAY
9:30 A.M.—Public Parks, Property
& Recreation Committee: Rybka,
Chairman; Dolan, Vice Chairman;
Brady, Britt, Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.
MONDAY—Alternating
11:00 A.M.—Public Service Committee: Cintron, Chairman; Sweeney,
Vice
Chairman;
Coats,
Johnson,
Jones, Melena, O’Malley, Westbrook,
Willis.
11:00 A.M.—Employment, Affirmative Action & Training Committee:
White, Chairman; Lewis, Vice Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Gordon, Johnson, Jones.
MONDAY
2:00 P.M.—Finance Committee: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cintron, Dolan, Lewis,
Melena, O’Malley, Polensek, Sweeney, White.
TUESDAY
9:30 A.M.—Community and Economic
Development
Committee:
Melena,
Chairman;
Lewis,
Vice
Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Cintron,
Jackson,
Johnson,
Jones,
Willis.
TUESDAY—Alternating
1:00 P.M.—Public Health Committee: Gordon, Chairman; Brady, Vice
Chairman;
Cimperman,
Jackson,
Reed, Westbrook, Willis.
1:30 P.M.—Legislation Committee:
Lewis, Chairman; Jones, Vice Chairman; Coats, Gordon, Reed, Westbrook, White.

the Mayor’s Appointment to the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority.
We have before us the Mayor’s
Letter
wherein
he
names
his
appointment to the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority:
Mark M.J. Ruzic
Term Expires March 7, 2002

WEDNESDAY—Alternating
1:30 P.M.—Public Utilities Committee: O’Malley, Chairman; Patmon,
Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats, Dolan,
Melena, Polensek, Westbrook, Willis.
1:30 P.M.—City Planning Committee: Cimperman, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Dolan,
Jackson,
O’Malley, Reed, White.
The following Committee is subject to the Call of the Chairman:
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
Cintron, Chairman; Britt, Jackson,
Jones, Sweeney.

OFFICIAL PROCEEDINGS
CITY
COUNCIL
______________
Cleveland, Ohio
Tuesday, June 19, 2001.
The meeting of the Council was
called
to
order,
The
President,
Michael D. Polensek, in the Chair.
Council Members present: Brady,
Britt, Cimperman, Cintron, Coats,
Dolan, Gordon, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Lewis, Melena, O’Malley, Patmon, Reed, Rybka, Sweeney, White
and Willis.
Also present were Mayor White,
and Directors Carter, Clark, Konicek, Sheperd, Whitlow, Guzman,
Miller, Hudecek, Patterson, Alexander, Dove, McCall and Ambroz. Acting Directors Johnson and Brown.
Absent: Directors Ricchiuto, Morrison and Warren.
Council President Polensek asked
that all rise for a moment of silence.
Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor’s Appointment Committee
Nelson Cintron, Jr., Chairman
Patricia J. Britt
Frank G. Jackson
Joseph T. Jones
Martin J. Sweeney
Without
objection,
appointment
approved. Yeas 14. Nays 0.
File No. 402-01-A.
June 18, 2001
To the Honorable Council of the
City of Cleveland City Council
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Report of the Mayor’s Appointment committee’s consideration of
the Mayor’s Appointment to the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority.
We have before us the Mayor’s
Letter
wherein
he
names
his
appointment to the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority:
Francisco Molina
The Mayor’s Appointment Committee
hereby
recommends
that
Council approve the appointment as
stated above.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee

MOTION
On the motion of Council Member
Britt, the reading of the minutes of
the last meeting was dispensed with
and the journal approved. Seconded
by Council Member Cimperman.
COMMITTEE ON MAYOR’S
APPOINTMENTS

Nelson Cintron, Jr., Chairman
Patricia J. Britt
Frank G. Jackson
Joseph T. Jones
Martin J. Sweeney
Without
objection,
appointment
approved. Yeas 14. Nays 0.
COMMUNICATIONS

File No. 10-01-A.
June 18, 2001
To the Honorable Council of the
City of Cleveland City Council
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Report of the Mayor’s Appointment Committee’s consideration of

1305

The Mayor’s Appointment Committee
hereby
recommends
that
Council approve the appointment as
stated above.

File No. 1183-01.
From Council President Polensek
- re: Appointment of Councilman Nelson Cintron as Temporary Chairman
of the Mayor’s Appointment Committee for consideration of Mark
Ruzic and Francisco Molina to the
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit
Authority Board. Received.

The City Record

4
File No. 1184-01.
From the Department of Law re:
Contract No. 5782 — Dr. Frederick
Tavill — Medical Consulting Services. Received
File No. 1185-01.
From Council President Polensek
re: City Council’s appointment of
Edna Fuentes-Casiano to the Cleveland Municipal School District Nominating Panel. Received.
File No. 1186-01.
From the Ohio Department of
Transportation re: Contract for State
Project No. 295 — U.S. Route 322.
Received.

Hunt Club Sports Bar & Grille, Inc.,
d.b.a. Hunt Club Sports Pub, 1701
East 12th Street. (Ward 13). Received.
File No. 1198-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 5284432 - Look Enterprises,
Inc., 1871 West 25th Street. (Ward
14). Received.
File No. 1199-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 5044904 - Lathathika, Inc.,
d.b.a.
Broadwalk
Lounge,
12524
Lorain Avenue, first floor and basement. (Ward 19). Received.
CONDOLENCE RESOLUTIONS

File No. 1187-01.
From the Department of Community Development re: Otis Associates
Limited
Partnership
Rent
Reimbursement Notice. Received.

The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
by a rising vote:

File No. 1188-01.
From the Ohio Department of
Transportation re: ODOT District 12
Construction Projects, Year 2000.
Received.

Res. No. 1200-01 — Walter W.
Browne.
Res. No. 1201-01—Carl B. Thomas,
Sr.
Res. No. 1202-01—Pitzer Bradley.
Res. No. 1203-01—Rev. Henry A.
Jezeski.

File No. 1189-01.
From the Department of Port Control re: Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — Auto Parking
Development Plan — revised April,
2001. Received.
STATEMENT OF WORK
ACCEPTED
File No. 1190-01.
From
the
Director
of
Public
Health re: Tremont Health Center
Masonry Restoration. Received.
File No. 1191-01.
From
the
Director
of
Public
Health re: Various City Health Centers
—
interior
improvements.
Received.
FROM DEPARTMENT OF
LIQUOR CONTROL
File No. 1192-01.
Re: New Application - 7467795 Norma Rodriguez, d.b.a. Grocery
Store, 5718 Bridge Avenue. (Ward
17).
File No. 1193-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 6069086 - Mizrah Zkout, Inc.,
d.b.a. Tom’s Market, 4324 Warner
Road, first floor. (Ward 12). Received.
File No. 1194-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership Application - 8464125 - St. Clair - One Stop
Foods, Inc., d.b.a. E. 102 Food Market, 584 East 102nd Street, first floor
only. (Ward 8). Received.
File No. 1195-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application - 0833178 Bounce LLC, 2814 Detroit Avenue.
(Ward 14). Received.
File No. 1196-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application - 0066473 - Adham, Inc., d.b.a. Adham Food Market, 13800 Harvard Avenue, first
floor. (Ward 1). Received.
File No. 1197-01.
Re: Transfer of Ownership and
Location Application - 40739730005 -

CONGRATULATION RESOLUTIONS
The rules were suspended and the
following Resolutions were adopted
without objection:
Res. No. 1204-01—Sandy Yambor.
Res. No. 1205-01—William B. Summers, Jr.
Res. No. 1206-01—Cleveland Bridge
Builders.
Res. No. 1207-01—Hayes, Hunter,
Johnson and Gibson Family Reunion.
Res. No. 1208-01—Temmison, Collier, Cook and Ellsberry Family
Reunion.
Res. No. 1209-01—Willa Hemmons
Taylor, Ph.D.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 168-A-01. (As a substitute
for Ord. No. 168-01).
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance providing for the issuance and sale of
Urban Renewal Temporary Bonds in
the principal amount not to exceed
$4,500,000 for the purpose of acquiring property for Urban Renewal Project Activities; authorizing the purchase of certain properties for that
purpose; and authorizing related
matters.
Whereas, under Article XVIII of
the Ohio Constitution and Chapter
725 of the Ohio Revised Code (the
“Act”), the City has the power to
undertake and carry out urban
renewal projects pursuant to urban
renewal plans approved by the City
from time to time, and the City has
undertaken and carried out and
intends to undertake and carry out
urban renewal activities for the
elimination of blight and for the
prevention of the development and
spread of blight and deterioration
within its designated urban renewal areas; and
Whereas, the City has undertaken
a program for the clearance and
reconstruction
of
blighted
areas
within its boundaries and, in connection therewith, is engaged in carrying out the following development
projects: (a) the Erieview II Neighborhood Development Plan No. Ohio

1306

June 20, 2001
A-8 (the “Erieview II Development
Plan”) in an area bounded generally on the north by Lakeside Avenue,
on the east by East 17th Street, on
the south by Superior Avenue, and
on the west by East 12th Street (the
“Erieview II Plan Area”) and (b)
the Erieview I Renewal Project No.
Ohio R-36 (the “Erieview I Development Plan”) in an area bounded
generally on the north by Lakeside
Avenue, on the east by East 14th
Street, on the south by Chester
Avenue and on the west by East 6th
Street (the “Erieview I Plan Area”),
which Erieview I Development Plan
and Erieview II Development Plan
(together the “Plans”) remain in
force and effect; and
Whereas, the Council of the City,
by Ordinance Nos. 1634-73 and 242860, passed on April 8, 1974, and
December 12, 1960, respectively, as
amended from time to time, designated the Erieview II Plan Area and
the Erieview I Plan Area (collectively, the “Plan Areas”) as blighted areas and encouraged the redevelopment of certain parcels within
the Plan Areas in accordance with
the requirements of the Erieview II
Development Plan and the Erieview
I Development Plan (collectively,
the “Development Plans”) in order
to prevent the recurrence or spread
of conditions of blight; and
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1108-87, passed June 8, 1987, as
amended by Ordinance No. 3012-88,
passed February 6, 1989, and Ordinance No. 1374-91, passed June 17,
1991, and Ordinance No. 1713-91,
passed August 21, 1991, the Director
of Community Development entered
into certain agreements (the Agreements) with Jacobs, Visconsi &
Jacobs Co. and its assignees (the
Redeveloper), relating to the redevelopment of certain real property
in the Erieview I Plan Area and the
Erieview II Plan Area; and
Whereas,
the
Agreements,
as
amended, provide that in the event
of a default under the Agreements,
the City is entitled to repurchase
Parcels 22-A-2, 9-B, and the Additional Properties (collectively, the
“Properties”), as defined in and pursuant to the terms and conditions
set forth in the Agreements; and
Whereas, the City desires to exercise its rights to repurchase the
above-referenced Properties as provided in the Agreements; and
Whereas, pursuant to Article VIII,
Section 13 of the Ohio Constitution
and the Act, and particularly Section
725.05(C) of the Revised Code, the
City has determined to issue Urban
Renewal
Temporary
Bonds
(the
“Temporary Bonds”) in the principal
amount not to exceed $4,500,000, for
the purpose of paying costs of carrying out urban renewal project
activities in the Plan Areas in accordance with the Plans and the Act,
including without limitation, direct
and indirect costs of acquiring the
Properties, preparing the Properties
for redevelopment, title, appraisal,
planning, engineering and legal
costs related thereto, and paying
Financing Costs (as defined below)
related to issuing the Temporary
Bonds (the “Project”);
Whereas, it is necessary to issue
the Temporary Bonds herein authorized and to do so as soon as possible to take advantage of the opportunity to purchase the Properties in
the Plan Areas, and, as a result, this
Ordinance constitutes an emergency
measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public prop-

June 20, 2001
erty, health, and safety and for the
usual and daily operation of a
municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. Definitions. In addition
to the words and terms elsewhere
defined in this Ordinance including
its preambles, unless the context or
use clearly indicates another or different meaning or intent:
“Book entry form” or “Book entry
system” means a form or system
under which (a) the ownership of
book entry interests in the Temporary Bonds and the principal of and
interest on the Temporary Bonds
may be transferred only through a
book entry, and (b) physical Bond
certificates in fully registered form
are issued only to a Depository or
its nominee as registered owner,
with the physical Bond certificates
“immobilized” in the custody of the
Depository or its agent. The book
entry system is maintained by and
is the responsibility of the Depository and not the City or the Bond
Registrar. The book entry is the
record that identifies, and records
the transfer of the interests of, the
owners of beneficial (book entry)
interests in the Temporary Bonds.
“Certificate of Award” means the
certificate authorized by Section 3,
to be executed by the Director of
Finance, setting forth and determining those terms or other matters
pertaining to the Temporary Bonds
and their amount, issuance, sale and
delivery as this Ordinance requires
or authorizes to be set forth or
determined in it.
“Continuing
Disclosure
Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 12, which, together
with the agreements of the City set
forth in that Section, shall constitute
the continuing disclosure agreement
made by the City for the benefit of
holders and beneficial owners of the
Temporary Bonds in accordance
with the Rule.
“Credit Support Instrument” means
a letter of credit, an insurance policy, or other credit enhancement or
liquidity device provided to enhance
the security or liquidity of the Temporary Bonds.
“Debt Retirement Fund” means
the Urban Renewal Debt Retirement
Fund established pursuant to Section 10.
“Depository” means any securities
depository that is a clearing agency
under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its participants or
otherwise, a book entry system to
record ownership of book entry
interests in Temporary Bonds or the
principal of and interest on the Temporary Bonds, and to effect transfers of Temporary Bonds, in book
entry form, and includes and means
initially The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust company), New York, New York.
“Financial Advisor” means Carmona Motley Hoffmann, Inc.
“Financing Costs” has the meaning provided in Section 133.01 of the
Revised Code.
“Nontax Revenues” means all moneys of the City which are not moneys raised by taxation, to the extent
available for the purpose of paying
debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds, including, but not limited to
the following: (a) grants from the
United States of America and the
State; (b) payments in lieu of taxes
now or hereafter authorized by State
statute; (c) fines and forfeitures
which are deposited in the City’s

The City Record
General Fund; (d) fees deposited in
the City’s General Fund for services
provided and from properly imposed
licenses and permits; (e) investment
earnings
on
the
City’s
General
Fund; (f) investment earnings on
other funds of the City that are
credited to the City’s General Fund;
(g) proceeds from the sale of assets
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund; (h) gifts and donations; and (i) all rental payments
which are deposited in the City’s
General Fund.
“Original Purchaser” means the
original purchasers of the Temporary Bonds: A.G. Edwards & Sons,
Inc. and SBK-Brooks Investment
Corp.
“Proceedings” means, collectively,
this Ordinance, the Certificate of
Award, the Continuing Disclosure
Certificate and such other proceedings of the City, including the Temporary Bonds, that provide collectively for, among other things, the
rights of holders and beneficial owners of the Temporary Bonds.
“Project Fund” means the Project
Fund established pursuant to Section 11.
“Revenues” means, to the extent
available to pay debt charges on the
Temporary
Bonds,
any
rentals
received under leases made by the
City with respect to the Project
properties, all proceeds from the
sale or other disposition of the Project
properties
and
any
urban
renewal service payments collected
from any of the Project properties.
“Rule” means SEC Rule 15c2-12.
“State” means the State of Ohio.
“Temporary Bonds” means the
Temporary Bonds authorized by this
Ordinance.
Unless otherwise indicated, any
reference to a Section is a reference
to a Section of this Ordinance.
Section 2. Authorized Principal
Amount and Purpose. This Council
determines that (i) the Project is
consistent with the purposes of Section 13 of Article VIII of the Ohio
Constitution; (ii) the Project is in
furtherance of the purposes of the
Act and will benefit the people of
the City and of the State by creating and preserving jobs and employment opportunities and improving
the economic welfare of the people
of the City and of the State; and
(iii) it is necessary for the City to
issue the Temporary Bonds pursuant
to Section 13 of Article VIII of the
Ohio
Constitution
and
Section
725.05(C) of the Act in the principal
amount not to exceed of $4,500,000 to
pay costs of the Project.
Section 3. Terms of Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds shall
be dated the date of issuance or
such other date as is designated in
the Certificate of Award. The Temporary Bonds shall mature on a date
to be determined by the Director of
Finance in the Certificate of Award
in accordance with her determination of the best interest of and
financial advantages to the City,
provided that such date shall not be
later than five years from the date
of issuance of the Temporary Bonds.
The Temporary Bonds shall bear
interest from their date at the rate
per annum set forth in the Certificate of Award, or if any Temporary
Bonds bear interest at a variable
rate, at the rate determined pursuant to the method set forth in the
Certificate of Award. Interest on the
Temporary Bonds shall be payable
on the dates determined by the
Director of Finance in the Certificate of Award and until the princi-

1307

5
pal amount is paid or payment is
provided for. If any Temporary
Bonds bear interest at a fixed rate,
that rate shall not exceed eight percent (8%) per year (computed on
the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) and
interest shall be payable not more
often than every six months and at
maturity or at any earlier redemption date. If any Temporary Bonds
bear interest at a variable rate or
rates, those rates shall not exceed
that set forth below, and interest
shall be payable not more often
than once a month and following
purchase and at maturity or at any
earlier redemption date.
In the event that the Director of
Finance determines that the City’s
best interests will be served by
causing all or a portion of the Temporary Bonds to be obligations bearing
interest
at
variable
rates,
redeemable by the City without
penalty or premium on interest
adjustment dates, then the Director
of Finance is authorized to so specify in the Certificate of Award. If
the Director of Finance so determines, then the Director of Finance
shall specify in the Certificate of
Award the method and procedure by
which the variable rate of interest
to be borne by the variable rate
Temporary Bonds shall be determined, whether by reference to a
market index, by a remarketing
agent or otherwise; provided that
the variable rate Temporary Bonds
shall not bear interest at a rate in
excess of twelve percent (12%) per
annum. That maximum interest rate
shall not apply to variable rate Temporary Bonds during any period
those Temporary Bonds are held by
a provider of a Credit Support
Instrument because they could not
be remarketed and the terms of the
Credit Support Instrument do not
permit such a maximum rate of
interest. Holders of variable rate
Temporary Bonds may be given the
right to tender their variable rate
Temporary Bonds for purchase by
the City at the times, on the terms,
and subject to the conditions set
forth in the Certificate of Award
and any tender agreement; provided
that tender rights shall be exercisable only at such times as a Credit
Support Instrument is in place that
provides for the payment of the purchase price payable to the tendering
holder of a variable rate Temporary
Bond. If the Director of Finance designates any Temporary Bonds as
variable rate Temporary Bonds, and
if the holders of the variable rate
Temporary Bonds are to be entitled
to tender the variable rate Temporary Bonds for purchase, then the
Director of Finance shall also designate in the Certificate of Award
for those variable rate Temporary
Bonds the provider or providers for
any Credit Support Instrument, the
tender agent or agents and the
remarketing agent or agents, which
designations shall be based on the
determination of the Director of
Finance that the parties so designated
possess
the
requisite
resources and experience to provide
the services required of them and
that the terms on which the designated parties have agreed to provide
such services are fair and commercially reasonable. The Director of
Finance is authorized to enter into
agreements in connection with the
delivery of the variable rate Temporary Bonds, and from time to time
thereafter so long as the variable
rate Temporary Bonds are outstand-

6
ing, with providers of Credit Support
Instruments, tender agents (which
may be the Registrar), remarketing
agents, and others as may be determined by the Director of Finance to
be necessary or appropriate to provide for the method of determining
the variable interest rates, permitting holders the right of tender, providing for liquidity or credit support
for the payment of the variable rate
Temporary Bonds upon tender for
purchase or redemption, and providing for the repayment by the City
of any amounts drawn under the
Credit Support Instrument.
The Director of Finance, in connection with the original issuance of
the Temporary Bonds, and regardless of the Temporary Bonds bearing interest at variable or fixed
rates, is authorized to contract for a
Credit Support Instrument, and to
pay the costs of it from proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds, if she determines
that
the
Credit
Support
Instrument will result in a savings
in the cost of this financing to the
City.
Section
4.
Payment
of
Debt
Charges on the Temporary Bonds.
The debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds shall be payable in lawful
money of the United States of America, or in Federal Reserve funds of
the United States of America as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance in the Certificate of Award,
and shall be payable, without deduction for services of the Registrar as
the City’s paying agent. If agreed to
by the Original Purchaser, the Temporary Bonds shall be subject to
redemption without penalty or premium at the option of the City in
whole or in part at any time prior
to maturity as provided in this Ordinance.
If fewer than all of the Temporary Bonds of a single maturity are
to be redeemed, the selection of
Temporary Bonds of that maturity
to be redeemed, or portions thereof
in amounts of the minimum authorized denomination or any integral
multiple thereof, shall be made by
lot in a manner determined by the
Registrar. In the case of a partial
redemption of Temporary Bonds by
lot
when
Temporary
Bonds
of
denominations greater than the minimum authorized denomination are
then outstanding, each unit of principal thereof in the amount of the
minimum authorized denomination
shall be treated as if it were a separate Temporary Bond of the denomination of the minimum authorized
denomination. If it is determined
that one or more, but not all, of the
units of principal amount in the
amount of the minimum authorized
denomination represented by a Temporary Bonds are to be called for
redemption, then, upon notice of
redemption of such unit or units, the
registered owner of that Temporary
Bond shall surrender the Temporary
Bond to the Registrar (i) for payment of the redemption price of such
unit or units of principal amount
called for redemption (including,
without
limitation,
the
interest
accrued
to
the
date
fixed
for
redemption), and (ii) for issuance,
without charge to the registered
owner, of a new Temporary Bond or
Temporary Bonds of any authorized
denomination or denominations in
an
aggregate
principal
amount
equal to the unmatured and unredeemed portion of, and bearing
interest at the same rate and maturing on the same date as, the Temporary Bond surrendered.

The City Record
The notice of the call for redemption of Temporary Bonds shall identify (i) by designation, letters, numbers, or other distinguishing marks,
the Temporary Bonds or portions
thereof to be redeemed, (ii) the
redemption price to be paid, (iii) the
date fixed for redemption, and (iv)
the place or places where the
amounts due upon redemption are
payable. The notice shall be given
by the Registrar on behalf of the
City by mailing a copy of the
redemption notice by first class
mail, postage prepaid, at least 30
days prior to the date fixed for
redemption, to the registered owner
of each Temporary Bond subject to
redemption in whole or in part at
the
registered
owner’s
address
shown on the Register (as defined
in Section 5) maintained by the Registrar at the close of business on the
15th day preceding that mailing.
Failure to receive notice by mail or
any defect in that notice regarding
any Temporary Bond, however, shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any
Temporary Bond.
In the event that notice of redemption shall have been given by the
Registrar to the registered owners
as provided above, there shall be
deposited with the Registrar on or
prior to the redemption date, moneys that, in addition to any other
moneys available therefor and held
by the Registrar, will be sufficient
to redeem at the redemption price
thereof, plus accrued interest to the
redemption
date,
all
of
the
redeemable Temporary Bonds for
which notice of redemption has been
given. Notice having been mailed in
the manner provided in the preceding paragraph hereof, the Temporary Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall become
due and payable on the redemption
date, and, upon presentation and
surrender thereof at the place or
places specified in that notice, shall
be paid at the redemption price, plus
accrued interest to the redemption
date. If moneys for the redemption
of all of the Temporary Bonds and
portions thereof to be redeemed,
together with accrued interest thereon to the redemption date, are held
by the Registrar on the redemption
date, so as to be available therefor
on that date and, if notice of
redemption has been deposited in
the mail as aforesaid, then from and
after the redemption date those
Bonds and portions thereof called
for redemption shall cease to bear
interest and no longer shall be considered to be outstanding. If those
moneys shall not be so available on
the redemption date, or that notice
shall not have been deposited in the
mail as aforesaid, those Temporary
Bonds and portions thereof shall
continue to bear interest, until they
are paid, at the same rate as they
would have borne had they not been
called for redemption. All moneys
held
by
the
Registrar
for
the
redemption of particular Temporary
Bonds shall be held in trust for the
account of the registered owners
thereof and shall be paid to them,
respectively, upon presentation and
surrender
of
those
Temporary
Bonds.
Section 5. Registrar. The Director
of Finance shall designate a bank
or trust company to act as the
authenticating
agent,
registrar,
transfer agent, and paying agent for
the Temporary Bonds after determining that the payment at that
bank or trust company will not

1308

June 20, 2001
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and that proper procedures
and safeguards are available for
that purpose (the “Registrar”). The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, a registrar agreement or
agreements between the City and
the Registrar (the “Registrar Agreement”) in a form consistent with
this Ordinance and as approved by
the Director of Law. In the event
that a trust agreement secures the
Temporary Bonds, as provided in
Section 10, the Registrar Agreement
may be incorporated in such trust
agreement. The Director of Finance
shall provide for the payment of the
services rendered and for reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to the Registrar Agreement
from the proceeds of the Temporary
Bonds to the extent available and
then from other money lawfully
available and appropriated or to be
appropriated for that purpose.
The Temporary Bonds shall be
issued only as fully registered Temporary Bonds. Principal on the
Temporary Bonds shall be payable
when due upon presentation and
surrender of the Temporary Bonds
at the designated office of the Registrar designated in the Registrar
Agreement. Interest on each Temporary Bond shall be paid on each
interest payment date by check or
draft mailed to the person in whose
name the Temporary Bond was registered, and to that person’s address
appearing on the Register (defined
below in this Section) at the close
of business on the 15th day of the
calendar month next preceding that
interest payment date. The City will
cause the Registrar to maintain and
keep all books and records necessary for the registration, exchange,
and transfer of Temporary Bonds as
provided in this Section (the “Register”) so long as any of the Temporary Bonds remain outstanding.
Subject to the provisions of this Section, the person in whose name a
Temporary Bond is registered on the
Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner of that Temporary
Bond for all purposes of the Proceedings. Payment of or on account
of the debt charges on any Temporary Bond shall be made only to or
upon the order of that person; neither the City nor the Registrar shall
be affected by any notice to the contrary, but the registration may be
changed as provided in this Section.
All such payments shall be valid
and effectual to satisfy and discharge the City’s liability upon the
Temporary Bond, including interest,
to the extent of the amount or
amounts so paid.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
and so long as the Temporary Bonds
are issued in a book entry system,
principal of and interest on the Temporary Bonds shall be payable in
the manner provided in any agreement entered into by the Director of
Finance, in the name and on behalf
of the City, in connection with the
book entry system.
Section 6. Transfer and Exchange
of Certain Temporary Bonds. Temporary Bonds may be exchanged for
Temporary Bonds of any authorized
denomination upon presentation and
surrender at the office designated
by the Registrar, together with a
request for exchange signed by the
registered owner or by a person
legally empowered to do so in a
form satisfactory to the Registrar. A
Temporary Bond may be transferred
only on the Register upon presenta-

June 20, 2001
tion and surrender of the Temporary
Bond at the office designated by the
Registrar together with an assignment signed by the registered owner
or by a person legally empowered to
do so in a form satisfactory to the
Registrar. Upon exchange or transfer, the Registrar shall complete,
authenticate, and deliver a new
Temporary
Bond
or
Temporary
Bonds, of any authorized denomination or authorized denominations
requested by the owner equal in the
aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Temporary Bond
surrendered and bearing interest at
the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
If manual signatures on behalf of
the City are required, the Registrar
shall undertake the exchange or
transfer of Temporary Bonds only
after the new Temporary Bonds are
signed by the authorized officers of
the City. In all cases of Temporary
Bonds exchanged or transferred, the
City shall sign and the Registrar
shall authenticate and deliver Temporary Bonds in accordance with the
provisions of the Proceedings. The
exchange or transfer shall be without charge to the owner, except that
the City and Registrar may make a
charge sufficient to reimburse them
for any tax or other governmental
charge required to be paid with
respect to the exchange or transfer.
The City or the Registrar may
require that those charges, if any,
be paid before the procedure is
begun for the exchange or transfer.
All Temporary Bonds issued and
authenticated upon any exchange or
transfer shall be valid special obligations of the City, evidencing the
same obligation, and entitled to the
same security and benefit under the
Proceedings,
as
the
Temporary
Bonds
surrendered
upon
that
exchange or transfer. Neither the
City nor the Registrar shall be
required to make any exchange or
transfer of a Temporary Bond during the period beginning at the
opening of business 15 days before
the day of the mailing of a notice
of redemption of Temporary Bonds
and ending at the close of business
on the day of such mailing or to
transfer or exchange any Temporary Bond selected for redemption in
whole or in part.
Section 7. Book Entry. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Ordinance, if it is determined
by the Director of Finance to be in
the best interests of and financially
advantageous to the City, the Temporary Bonds may be issued in book
entry form in accordance with the
provisions of this Section. As used
in this Section and this Ordinance:
The Temporary Bonds may be
issued to a Depository for use in a
book entry system and, if and as
long as a book entry system is utilized, (i) the Temporary Bonds may
be issued in the form of a single,
fully registered Temporary Bond
representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, as registered
owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository; (ii) the book
entry interest owners of Temporary
Bonds in book entry form shall have
no
right
to
receive
Temporary
Bonds in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership
of book entry interests in book
entry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and
operated by the Depository and its
Participants, and transfers of the
ownership of book entry interests

The City Record
shall be made only by book entry
by the Depository and its Participants;
and
(iv)
the
Temporary
Bonds as such shall not be transferable or exchangeable, except for
transfer to another Depository or to
another nominee of a Depository,
without further action by the City.
If any Depository determines not
to continue to act as a Depository
for the Temporary Bonds for use in
a book entry system, the Director of
Finance may attempt to establish a
securities
depository/book
entry
relationship with another qualified
Depository.
If
the
Director
of
Finance does not or is unable to do
so, the Director of Finance, after
making provision for notification of
the book entry interest owners by
the then Depository and any other
arrangements
deemed
necessary,
shall permit withdrawal of the Temporary Bonds from the Depository,
and authenticate and deliver certificates in registered form to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense
(including any costs of printing), if
the event is not the result of City
action or inaction, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Director of Finance also is
hereby authorized and directed to
the extent necessary or required to
enter into any agreements determined necessary in connection with
the book entry system for the Temporary Bonds, after determining
that the signing thereof will not
endanger the funds or securities of
the City and after the approval of
the form of any such agreement by
the Director of Law.
Section 8. Execution of Temporary
Bonds. Temporary Bonds shall be
signed by the Mayor and the Director of Finance, in the name of the
City and in their official capacities,
provided that either or both of those
signatures may be a facsimile, and
shall bear the seal of the City or a
facsimile thereof; provided that no
Temporary Bond shall be valid or
obligatory for any purpose or shall
be entitled to any security or benefit under the Proceedings unless and
until the certificate of authentication printed on the Temporary Bond
is signed by the Registrar as
authenticating agent, and authentication by the Registrar shall be conclusive evidence that the Temporary
Bond so authenticated has been duly
issued, signed and delivered under,
and is entitled to the security and
benefit of, the Proceedings. The certificate of authentication may be
signed by any authorized officer or
employee of the Registrar or by any
other person acting as an agent of
the Registrar and approved by the
Director of Finance on behalf of the
City. The same person need not sign
the certificate of authentication on
all of the Temporary Bonds.
Pursuant to Section 83 of the
City’s Charter, the Director of Law
shall prepare the Temporary Bonds
and
shall
endorse
thereon
his
approval of the form and correctness
thereof by his manual or facsimile
signature. The Temporary Bonds
shall be issued in the denominations
as requested by the Original Purchaser and approved by the Director
of Finance, in conformity with this
Ordinance.
The
entire
principal
amount may be represented by a single bond certificate and may be
issued as fully registered securities
and in book entry or other uncertificated form if it is determined by
the
Director
of
Finance
that
issuance of fully registered securi-

1309

7
ties in that form will facilitate the
sale and delivery of the Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds may
be issued in the authorized denominations of either (a) $100,000 each
or in any denomination that is the
sum of (i) $100,000 and (ii) $5,000 or
any integral multiple thereof, and
not exchangeable for other Temporary Bonds in denominations less
than $100,000, or (b) $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, as determined by the Director of Finance in
the Certificate of Award to be in the
best interests of the City. The Temporary Bonds shall not have coupons
attached, shall be numbered as
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance and shall express upon
their faces the purpose, in summary
terms, for which they are issued and
that they are issued pursuant to this
Ordinance.
Section 9. Sale of Temporary
Bonds. The Temporary Bonds shall
be sold at not less than 97% of par
plus accrued interest at private sale
by the Director of Finance to the
Original Purchaser in accordance
with law and the provisions of this
Ordinance. If, in the reasonable
opinion of the Director of Finance,
an underwriter is incapable of fully
performing its duties or meeting its
obligations in its capacity as Original Purchaser with respect to the
Temporary Bonds, the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized and
directed, in the name of and on
behalf of the City, to take whatever action may be necessary to terminate that underwriter’s standing
as Original Purchaser. The Director
of Finance shall sign the Certificate
of Award referred to in this Ordinance, evidencing that sale to the
Original Purchaser, cause the Temporary Bonds to be prepared, and
have the Temporary Bonds signed
and delivered, together with a true
transcript of proceedings with reference to the issuance of the Temporary Bonds if requested by the
Original Purchaser, to the Original
Purchaser upon payment of the purchase price. The Director of Finance
is authorized to sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the City,
a bond purchase agreement between
the City and the Original Purchaser, or representative thereof (the
“Purchase Agreement”), in a form
consistent with this Ordinance and
as approved by the Director of Law.
The Director of Finance shall provide for the payment of the services
rendered and for reimbursement of
expenses incurred pursuant to the
Purchase Agreement from the proceeds of the Temporary Bonds to the
extent available and then from
other money lawfully available and
appropriated or to be appropriated
for that purpose. The Mayor, the
Director of Finance, the Clerk, the
Director of Law, and other City officials, as appropriate, are each authorized and directed to sign any transcript certificates, financial statements and other documents and
instruments
and
to
take
such
actions as are necessary or appropriate to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Ordinance.
Section 10. Security for the Temporary Bonds. The Temporary Bonds
shall be special obligations of the
City, and the debt charges on the
Temporary Bonds shall be payable
solely from the Revenues and the
Nontax Revenues. The payment of
debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds is secured by a pledge of and
lien on (i) the Revenues and (ii) the

8
Nontax Revenues which are on
deposit in the Urban Renewal Debt
Retirement Fund created below. The
Temporary Bonds are not and shall
not be secured by an obligation or
pledge of any money raised by taxation. The Temporary Bonds do not
and shall not represent or constitute
a debt or pledge of the faith and
credit or taxing power of the City,
and the owners thereof have and
shall have no right to have taxes
levied by the City for the payment
of debt charges thereon. The Temporary Bonds shall contain a statement to that effect and to the effect
that
the
Temporary
Bonds
are
payable solely from the Revenues
and the Nontax Revenues and are
not secured by an obligation or
pledge of any money raised by taxation.
The City covenants and agrees
that while the Temporary Bonds are
outstanding, it will appropriate and
maintain Nontax Revenues at such
times and in such amounts as will
be sufficient, together with the Revenues and any other funds available
for the purpose, to pay the debt
charges on the Temporary Bonds
and will so restrict other obligations
payable from Nontax Revenues prior
to or on a parity with the Temporary Bonds as will ensure the continuing availability for appropriation of sufficient Nontax Revenues
to pay debt charges when due,
which Nontax Revenues are hereby
selected by the City pursuant to Section 725.05(C) of the Revised Code
as moneys that are not raised by
taxation.
There is hereby created by the
City a separate fund or account designated as the “Urban Renewal Debt
Retirement Fund” (the “Debt Retirement Fund”) into which shall be
deposited (i) the Revenues upon
receipt, and (ii) other Nontax Revenues on or prior to the date debt
charges on the Temporary Bonds
are due, in an amount sufficient to
pay those debt charges. Any Revenues remaining after payment, or
provision for payment, of all debt
charges on the Temporary Bonds
shall be deposited, to the extent not
otherwise pledged or encumbered,
as follows: half in the Housing
Trust Fund (Fund No. 14 SF 027)
and half the Neighborhood Development Investment Fund (Fund No. 10
SF 501).
Nothing herein shall be construed
as requiring the City to use or apply
to the payment of debt charges on
the Temporary Bonds any funds or
revenues from any source other than
Revenues and the Nontax Revenues.
Nothing herein, however, shall be
deemed to prohibit the City, of its
own volition, from using, to the
extent that it is authorized by law
to do so, any other resources for the
fulfillment of any of the terms, conditions or obligations of this Ordinance or of the Temporary Bonds.
The City will, solely from the proceeds of the Temporary Bonds or
from the Revenues or the Nontax
Revenues, pay or cause to be paid
the debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds on the dates, at the places
and in the manner provided herein
and in the Temporary Bonds. For
that purpose, in each year while the
Temporary Bonds are outstanding,
this Council, after providing for the
payment of debt charges payable on
the City’s general obligation securities in that year from sources available for that purpose, will appropriate Nontax Revenues required to
pay, and for the purpose of paying,

The City Record
the debt charges due in that year on
the Temporary Bonds and any outstanding parity obligations payable
from Nontax Revenues. Further, this
Council will give effect to such
appropriations in all ordinances it
passes thereafter in that year appropriating money for expenditure and
encumbrance and limit the other
appropriations of Nontax Revenues
in that year to the amount available
after deducting the amount required
for the payment of debt charges
payable on the City’s general obligation securities and to pay those
debt charges. The City covenants
that, so long as any of the Temporary Bonds are outstanding, it shall
not issue any additional obligations
payable from the Nontax Revenues
on a parity with the Temporary
Bonds and any outstanding parity
obligations payable from Nontax
Revenues, unless, prior to passage
of the ordinance authorizing such
parity obligations, the Director of
Finance shall have certified to this
Council that the Nontax Revenues
during the preceding calendar year,
adjusted to reflect, if necessary,
changes in the rates or charges
resulting in the Nontax Revenues,
aggregate in amount not less than
100% of the highest amount of (a)
debt charges on the Temporary
Bonds and (b) required payments on
such proposed parity obligations
and any outstanding parity obligations due in any succeeding calendar year.
Each
obligation
of
the
City
required to be undertaken pursuant
to this Ordinance and the Temporary Bonds is binding upon the City,
and upon each officer or employee
of the City as may from time to time
have the authority under law to
take any action on behalf of the
City as may be necessary to perform
all or any part of such obligation,
as a duty of the City and of each of
those officers and employees resulting from an office, trust or station
within
the
meaning
of
Section
2731.01 of the Revised Code, providing for enforcement by writ of mandamus.
In the event that the interest on
the Temporary Bonds is to be provided for from Temporary Bond proceeds, or if in the judgment of the
Director of Finance, after consultation with the Financial Advisor, a
debt service reserve to secure the
Temporary Bonds is in the best
interest of and financially advantageous to the City, the City shall
enter into a trust agreement with
the bank or trust company serving
as Registrar for the Temporary
Bonds and providing for the Debt
Fund or a debt service reserve fund,
as applicable, to be held by that
bank or trust company, in its capacity as trustee, and such fund or
funds are hereby authorized. The
Director of Finance shall sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, the trust agreement in
a form consistent with this Ordinance and approved by the Director
of Law. The Mayor and the Director
of Finance and other City officials,
as appropriate, are authorized to
take such actions as are necessary
or appropriate to consummate such
additional security for the Temporary
Bonds.
The
City
hereby
covenants and agrees to appropriate
annually from the Revenues and the
Nontax Revenues into any such
funds amounts sufficient to maintain the balances required by the
trust agreement and to restore any
deficiency therein.

1310

June 20, 2001
Section 11. Project Fund; Deposit
of Proceeds. The proceeds from the
sale of the Temporary Bonds are
appropriated and shall be used for
the purpose for which the Temporary Bonds are being issued. The
City hereby creates, and orders
maintained as a separate fund or as
a separate account, in the custody
and control of the City, a fund designated the “Erieview Urban Renewal
Project
Fund”
(the
“Project
Fund”). The proceeds from the sale
of the Temporary Bonds (exclusive
of amounts to be deposited in the
Debt Retirement Fund, as directed
below) shall be deposited in the Project Fund and are hereby appropriated for and shall be used to pay
the costs of the Project. Additional
funds, from whatever source, may
be voluntarily deposited in the Project Fund by the City. The City may
establish separate accounts within
the Project Fund as necessary or
convenient to ascertain the dates,
amounts and sources of deposits. At
such time as disbursements are to
be made from the Project Fund to
pay costs of the Project, the City is
directed to transfer amounts in the
Project Fund to the appropriate
fund or funds of the City from
which the costs of the Project are
to be paid. Any portion of the proceeds of the Temporary Bonds to be
used to pay interest on the Temporary Bonds or to make a required
deposit to a debt service reserve
fund shall be paid into the Debt
Retirement Fund and any debt service reserve fund, respectively, created pursuant to Section 10. Any premium and accrued interest received
from the sale of the Temporary
Bonds shall be deposited in the Debt
Retirement Fund.
Section 12. Disclosure. If, in the
judgment of the Director of Finance,
after consultation with the Financial Advisor and the Original Purchaser, an official statement or
other disclosure document is appropriate relating to the initial offering
of the Temporary Bonds, the Director of Finance, on behalf of the City
and in that officer’s official capacity, is authorized to (i) cooperate
with the Original Purchaser in the
preparation of, and the making of
modifications,
completions
or
changes of or supplements to, such
a disclosure document, (ii) determine, and to certify or otherwise
represent, when the disclosure document is to be deemed final or is
final, (iii) authorize the use and distribution of that disclosure document and any supplements thereto
in connection with the initial offering of the Temporary Bonds, and
(iv) sign certificates, statements or
other documents in connection with
the finality, accuracy, and completeness of that disclosure document.
For the benefit of the holders and
beneficial owners from time to time
of the Temporary Bonds, the City
agrees, as the only obligated person
with
respect
to
the
Temporary
Bonds under the Rule, to provide or
cause to be provided such financial
information
and
operating
data,
audited financial statements and
notices, in such manner, as may be
required for purposes of paragraph
(b)(5)(i) of the Rule. In order to
describe and specify certain terms
of the City’s continuing disclosure
agreement for that purpose, and
thereby to implement that agreement,
including
provisions
for
enforcement, amendment, and termination, the Director of Finance is

June 20, 2001
authorized and directed to sign and
deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the City, and if required under
the Rule, a Continuing Disclosure
Certificate or Certificates in conformance with the reporting requirements of the Rule. The agreement
formed, collectively, by this paragraph and that Certificate, shall be
the
City’s
continuing
disclosure
agreement for purposes of the Rule,
and its performance shall be subject
to the annual appropriation of any
funds that may be necessary to perform it.
The Director of Finance is further
authorized and directed to establish
procedures in order to ensure compliance by the City with its continuing disclosure agreement, including the timely provision of information and notices. Prior to making
any filing in accordance with that
agreement or providing notice of the
occurrence of any other events, the
Director of Finance shall consult
with, as appropriate, the legal counsel and bond or other qualified independent special counsel to the City.
The Director of Finance, acting in
the name and on behalf of the City,
shall be entitled to rely upon any
legal advice provided by any such
counsel in determining whether a
filing should be made.
Section 13. Ratings, Insurance,
and Other Credit Enhancement. If,
in the judgment of the Director of
Finance after consultation with the
Financial Advisor, the filing of an
application for a rating on the Temporary Bonds by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies or a
Credit Support Instrument is in the
best interest of, and financially
advantageous to, the City, the Director of Finance is authorized to prepare and submit those applications,
to provide to each such agency, company or Credit provider such information as may be required for the
purpose. The cost of obtaining each
rating and Credit Support Instrument, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchaser in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
shall be paid from the proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds.
Section 14. Interest Rate Swaps,
Hedges and Caps. For the purpose
of achieving the optimal available
debt structure for the Temporary
Bonds, the Director of Finance may,
based on the written advice of the
Financial Advisor, enter into one or
more agreements in connection with
or subsequent to the issuance of the
Temporary Bonds for an interest
rate swap, an interest rate cap or
other such arrangement to lower the
effective interest rate on the obligations to the City or to hedge the
exposure of the City against fluctuations in prevailing interest rates,
provided, however, that: (i) the debt
structure that is simulated through
the combination of the Temporary
Bonds with any such agreements
shall comply with the restrictions of
this Ordinance on the terms of and
security for the Temporary Bonds
applied to that structure as though
it consisted solely of Temporary
Bonds; (ii) the counterparty to any
swap agreement and the provider of
any interest rate cap shall have a
rating of at least “A” by either
Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., or
Standard & Poor’s Corporation; (iii)
no such agreement shall purport to
entitle
the
counterparty
to
the
agreement to payment by the City
from any source other than the
sources which secure the Temporary
Bonds as described in this Ordi-

The City Record
nance; (iv) the cost of obtaining any
such interest rate cap or other such
arrangement shall have been determined by the Director of Finance,
based on the written advice of the
Financial Advisor, to be justified by
the corresponding benefit to the
City and to be commercially reasonable based on then current market conditions. The notional amount
on which any such agreement is
based shall not be subject to the
limitations set forth herein on the
maximum principal amount of the
Temporary Bonds.
Section 15. Tax Covenants. In the
event that the Temporary Bonds are
issued and sold as obligations bearing interest that is excluded from
gross income for federal income tax
purposes, the covenants in this Section 15 shall govern. However, if the
Temporary Bonds are issued and
sold as obligations bearing interest
that is included in gross income for
federal income tax purposes, the
City shall not be bound by the
covenants
of
this
Section
with
respect to the Temporary Bonds.
Subject to the foregoing, the City
covenants that it will use, and will
restrict the use and investment of,
the proceeds of the Temporary
Bonds in such manner and to such
extent as may be necessary so that
(a) the Temporary Bonds will not
(i) constitute private activity bonds,
arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds
under Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the Code) or (ii) be treated other than as bonds to which Section 103(a) of the Code applies, and
(b) the interest on the Temporary
Bonds will not be treated as an item
of tax preference under Section 57
of the Code. The City further
covenants that (a) it will take or
cause to be taken such actions that
may be required of it for the interest on the Temporary Bonds to be
and remain excluded from gross
income for federal income tax purposes, (b) it will not take or authorize to be taken any actions that
would adversely affect that exclusion, and (c) it, or persons acting
for it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply the proceeds of
the Temporary Bonds to the governmental purpose of the borrowing,
(ii) restrict the yield on investment
property, (iii) make timely and adequate payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and
records and make calculations and
reports and (v) refrain from certain
uses of those proceeds, and, as
applicable,
of
property
financed
with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent necessary to
assure such exclusion of that interest under the Code.
The Director of Finance, as the
fiscal officer, or any other officer of
the City having responsibility for
issuance of the Temporary Bonds is
hereby authorized (a) to make or
effect any election, selection, designation, choice, consent, approval, or
waiver on behalf of the City with
respect to the Temporary Bonds as
the City is permitted to or required
to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without
limitation thereto, any of the elections
provided
for
in
Section
148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code,
for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax
treatment or status of the Temporary Bonds or interest thereon or
assisting compliance with requirements for that purpose, reducing the

1311

9
burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making
payments of special amounts in lieu
of making computations to determine, or paying, excess earnings as
rebate, or obviating those amounts
or payments, as determined by that
officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the officer,
(b) to take any and all other
actions, make or obtain calculations,
make payments, and make or give
reports, covenants and certifications
of and on behalf of the City, as may
be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from gross income
and the intended tax status of the
Temporary Bonds, and (c) to give
one or more appropriate certificates
of the City, for inclusion in the
transcript of proceedings for the
Temporary Bonds, setting forth the
reasonable expectations of the City
regarding the amount and use of all
the proceeds of the Temporary
Bonds, the facts, circumstances and
estimates on which they are based,
and other facts and circumstances
relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest on and the tax status of the
Temporary Bonds.
Section 16. Purchase of Properties.
The Director of Community Development is authorized to purchase
the Properties, which are more
specifically described in Exhibit A
hereto, by paying to the Escrow
Agent as defined in the Agreements
such funds and executing such documents as may be necessary to
effectuate the repurchase rights of
the City pursuant to the Agreements.
Section 17. Captions, Headings,
and Section References. The captions and headings in this Ordinance
are solely for convenience of reference and in no way define, limit, or
describe the scope or intent of any
Sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, or clauses hereof.
Reference to a Section means a section of this Ordinance unless otherwise indicated.
Section 18. Interpretation. Any pro visions of the Codified Ordinances
of the City which are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to the Temporary
Bonds
authorized
herein.
Nothing in this Ordinance is intended to, and no provision hereof shall
be applied in any manner as would,
impair the obligation of contract of
the City with respect to any outstanding bonds, Temporary Bonds,
certificates of indebtedness, other
obligations, trust indentures, trust
agreements, or other agreements or
contracts made or entered into by
the City.
Section 19. Satisfaction of Conditions. This Council determines that
all acts and conditions necessary to
be done or performed by the City
or to have been met precedent to
and in the issuing of the Temporary Bonds in order to make them
legal, valid, and binding special
obligations of the City have been
performed and have been met, or
will at the time of delivery of the
Temporary Bonds have been performed and have been met, in regular and due form as required by
law, and that no limitation of
indebtedness
or
taxation, either
statutory
or
constitutional,
is
applicable to the issuance of the
Temporary Bonds.
Section 20. Compliance with Open
Meeting Requirements. This Council finds and determines that all
formal actions of this Council and

10
any of its committees concerning
and relating to the passage of this
Ordinance were taken in an open
meeting of this Council or committees, and that all deliberations of
this Council and any of its committees that resulted in those formal actions were in meetings open
to the public, all in compliance with
the law.
Section 21. Emergency. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an
emergency measure and, provided it
receives the affirmative vote of twothirds of all members elected to
Council, it shall take effect and be
in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor;
otherwise it shall take effect and be
in force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Exhibit “A”
PARCEL 22-A-2
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Two Acre Lot Nos. 175, 176
and 177 in the Nathan Perry Allotment as shown in Deed Book 35,
Page 11 of Cuyahoga County Records
and a part of Emerald Court N.E. (18
and 28 feet wide) vacated by Ordinance Number 1816-77, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 1, 1977, and being further
known as Parcel
22-A-2 in
the
Erieview Renewal Project II, and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Southerly line of
St. Clair Avenue, N.E. (99 feet wide)
as dedicated by the recorded plat in
Volume 188 of Maps, Page 7 of
Cuyahoga County Records, at its
intersection with the Easterly line
of East 12th Street (140 feet wide),
as proposed to be widened; thence
South 33° 59' 17" East, along the
Easterly line of said East 12th
Street, as proposed to be widened,
275.65 feet to its intersection with
the Northerly line
of Rockwell
Avenue, N.E. (60 feet wide); thence
North 55° 39' 15" East, along the
Northerly line of said Rockwell
Avenue, N.E., 135.00 feet to a point;
said point being at the Southwesterly corner of a parcel of land conveyed to St. Clair Place, L.T.D. by
deed recorded in Volume 14636,
Page
79
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence North 33° 59' 17"
West, along a Westerly line of land
so conveyed to St. Clair Place,
L.T.D. 221.14 feet to a point; said
point being in a Northwesterly corner of said land conveyed to St.
Clair Place, L.T.D.; thence North 47°
27' 28" East, along a Northwesterly
line of land so conveyed to St. Clair
Place, L.T.D., 75.84 feet to an inner
corner therein; thence North 33° 59'
17" West, along a Westerly line of
land so conveyed to St. Clair Place,
L.T.D., 65.73 feet to the proposed
Southerly line of St. Clair Avenue.,
N.E.; thence South 47° 27' 28" West,
along said proposed Southerly line
of St. Clair Avenue, N.E., 153.15 feet
to its intersection with the Southerly line of St. Clair Avenue as dedicated in Volume 188 of Maps, Page
7 of Cuyahoga County Records;
thence South 55° 27' 26" West,
along said Southerly line of St.
Clair Avenue, N.E., 58.55 feet to the
place of beginning and containing
42,583 square feet (0.9776 Acres) of
land, be the same more less, but
subject to all legal highways.
PARCEL NO. 9-B+
(HAMILTON AVENUE PARCEL)
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of

The City Record
Ohio, and known as being all of
Sublots Nos. 65 and 84, part of
Sublots Nos. 64, 66, 83 and 85 in Levi
Johnson’s Allotment of all of Original Two Acre Lots Nos. 178 to 181,
both inclusive, and part of Two Acre
Lots Nos. 182, 187, 188, 189 and 190,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 1 of Maps, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Records, part of Canfield Court N.E., 20 feet in width
(now vacated) and part of St. Clair
Avenue N.E. (now vacated) by Ordinance No. 914-79, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
May 21, 1979 and shown by the
Vacation Plat recorded in Volume
225 of Maps, Page 18 of Cuyahoga
County Records, together forming a
parcel
of
land
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Southeasterly
line of Hamilton Avenue N.E., 40
feet in width, at its intersection
with the Northeasterly line of East
12th Street, 140 feet in width, as
shown
by
the
Dedication
Plat
recorded in Volume 231 in Maps,
Page
12
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Course No. 1: thence North 55° 41'
49" East along said Southeasterly
line of Hamilton Avenue N.E., 101.88
feet to the Northwesterly corner of
land conveyed to B. A. Carran by
deed dated September 7, 1946 and
recorded in Volume 6216, Page 16
and by deed recorded in Volume
12384, Page 927 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Course No. 2: thence South 34° 02'
48" East along the Southwesterly
line of land so conveyed to B. A.
Carran, 99.90 feet to a point in the
Northwesterly
line
of
Canfield
Court, N.E., 20 feet in width;
Course No. 3: thence South 09° 08'
37" East, along the Southwesterly
line of Canfield Court N.E., 22.09 feet
to the Northwesterly corner of land
conveyed to David E. Owen (onehalf interest) by deed dated May 14,
1981 and recorded in Volume 15453,
Page
315
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and Abe Owen (one-half
interest) by deed dated April 18,
1975 and recorded in Volume 13824,
Page
175
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Course No. 4: thence South 33° 59'
17" East along the Southwesterly
line of land so conveyed to David E.
Owen and Abe Owen, and along the
Southeasterly prolongation thereof,
159.54 feet to a point in the Northwesterly line of relocated St. Clair
Avenue N.E.;
Course No. 5: thence Southwesterly along said Northwesterly line of
relocated St. Clair Avenue N.E.,
being along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the right, 41.05 feet to
a point of tangency, said curved line
having a radius of 460.50 feet and a
chord which bears South 53°15' 29"
West a distance of 41.04 feet;
Course No. 6: thence South 55° 48'
42" West along the Northwesterly
line of St. Clair Avenue N.E., as now
relocated, 51.71 feet to a point in the
aforementioned Northeasterly line of
East 12th Street;
Course No. 7: thence North 33° 59'
17" West, along said Northeasterly
line of said East 12th Street, 281.08
feet to the place of beginning, containing 27,053 square feet of land
(0.6211 acres) according to a survey
by Garrett & Associates, Inc., Registered Engineers and Surveyors,
made in June, 1987, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.

1312

June 20, 2001
Permanent Parcels
Additional Properties:

Numbers

of

102-6-43
102-6-44
102-6-45
102-6-46
102-6-47
102-6-62
102-6-63
102-6-64
102-6-65
102-6-66
102-6-67
102-6-68
102-6-69
102-6-70
Without
objection,
substitute
agreed to. Ordinance No. 168-01 Laid
on the Table.
Referred to Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1210-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ surveyors or firms of surveyors, to provide professional services necessary to survey various
parcels or portions of parcels of
land.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
employ by contract or contracts surveyors or firms of surveyors for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to provide professional services necessary to survey various
parcels or portions of parcels of
land under the jurisdiction and control of the various divisions of the
Department of Port Control.
The selection of surveyors or
firms of surveyors for such services
shall be made by the Board of Control upon the nomination of the
Director of Port Control from a list
of qualified surveyors or firms of
surveyors
available
for
such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass
by the Director of Port Control for
the purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract or
contracts herein authorized shall be
prepared by the Director of Law,
approved by the Director of Port
Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
contract or contracts herein authorized shall be paid from Fund No.
60 SF 001, Request No. 30966.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviation and Transportation, Finance.

June 20, 2001
Ord. No. 1211-01.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency ordinance designating the Guardian Trust Bank
Building — Lorain-West 117th Street
Branch as a Cleveland Landmark.
Whereas,
the
Cleveland
Landmarks Commission (the “Commission”) pursuant to Chapter 161 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, has proposed the
designation of the Guardian Trust
Bank Building — Lorain-West 117th
Street Branch as a landmark, and
Whereas, a public hearing pursuant to Chapter 161.04(b)(2) was
held on June 14, 2001 to discuss the
proposed
designation
of
the
Guardian Trust Bank Building —
Lorain-West 117th Street Branch as
a landmark; and
Whereas, the Commission has recommended
designation
of
the
Guardian Trust Bank Building —
Lorain-West 117th Street Branch as
a landmark and has set forth certain findings of fact constituting the
basis for its decision; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health,
and safety in that the immediate
protection of the historic landmark
is necessary to safeguard the special historical, community, or aesthetic interest or value in the landmark, now therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1.
That the Guardian
Trust Bank Building — Lorain-West
117th Street Branch, whose street
address in the City of Cleveland is
11718-26 Lorain Avenue, N.W., also
known as Cuyahoga County Auditor’s permanent parcel numbers 02122-013 and 021-22-014 and the land
embracing the site thereof, which in
its entirety is a property having special character or special historical
or aesthetic value as part of the
development, heritage, or cultural
characteristics of the City, State, or
the United States, be and it hereby
is designated a landmark pursuant
to Chapter 161 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of City Planning Commission, Law; Committees
on City Planning, Finance.
Ord. No. 1212-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Buckeye Area Development Corporation, as an agent for
the City of Cleveland, to carry out
the public purpose of providing
housing
improvement
assistance
directly to individuals and families
on Hulda Avenue through the installation of yard lamps with the use of
Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is autho-

The City Record

11

rized to enter into an agreement
with Buckeye Area Development
Corporation, as an agent for the
City of Cleveland, to carry out the
public purpose of providing housing
improvement assistance directly to
individuals and families on Hulda
Avenue through the installation of
yard lamps with the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $21,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That Ordinance 11252000, passed June 19, 2000 is hereby
repealed.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

Ord. No. 1214-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance directing
the Director of Public Service to
take all necessary actions to change
the name of East 75th Street in
Ward 6 to Bilal Street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is authorized and
directed
to
take
all
necessary
actions to change the name of East
75th Street in Ward 6 to Bilal Street.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Committees on Public
Service, City Planning, Finance.

Ord. No. 1213-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section
1
of
Ordinance
1715-99,
passed September 27, 1999, to authorize and approve a mortgage loan
and/or grant assistance program for
the public purpose of providing
housing for individuals and families, through the use of Ward 6
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board of the City of Cleveland has
reviewed and approved a program of
assistance for purchasers of housing
at 2798 East 119th Street being rehabilitated by Buckeye Area Development Corporation; and
Whereas, Ordinance 1715-99, passed
September 27, 1999 did not specify the
use of funds for said assistance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance 1715-99, passed September 27,
1999 is hereby amended to read as
follows:
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with Buckeye
Area Development Corporation to
provide funding directly by the City
for individuals and families in order
to promote the sale of a house at
2798 East 119th Street in the City of
Cleveland, through the use of Ward
6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance 1715-99, passed September 27,
1999 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

Ord. No. 1215-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with St. Clair Superior Neighborhood
Development Association for St. Clair
Superior Neighborhood Arts Festival
through the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with St. Clair Superior Neighborhood
Development
Association
for
St.
Clair Superior Neighborhood Arts
Festival to carry out the public purpose of exposing residents to the
social resources in the neighborhood, and to have families test their
children for lead and to learn about
fire safety, residents will also be
exposed to the artistic resources in
the neighborhood.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $5,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

1313

Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

12
Ord. No. 1216-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No.
809-01 passed May 14, 2001 to enter
into
a
grant
agreement
with
Tremont West Development Corporation for the development of a master plan and a HOPE VI application
in order to carry out the public purposes of conducting a neighborhood
planning study and providing housing, using Ward 13 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance No. 809-01, passed May 14,
2001, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Tremont West Development Corporation for the development of a master plan and a HOPE
VI application in order to carry out
the public purposes of conducting a
neighborhood planning study and
providing housing, through the use
of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $50,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 809-01, passed May 14,
2001, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1217-01.
By Councilmen Cintron, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to purchase a site for
the elimination of blight at 1787 W.
44th Street, for the Department of
Community Development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapter 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to purchase the following
described property for the purpose
of the elimination of blight:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being Sublot No.
6 in the Franklin Allotment of a
part of Original Brooklyn Township

The City Record
Lot No. 51 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page
11 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
being 34 feet front on the Easterly
side of West 44th Street (formerly
Harbor Street) and extending back
94 feet 10.5 inches on the Southerly
line and extending back 94 feet 10
inches on the Northerly line, which
is also the Southerly line of Terret
Avenue,
N.W.
(formerly
Terret
Street), and having a rear line of 34
feet, as appears by said plat, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to execute on behalf of
the City of Cleveland all necessary
documents to acquire such property
and to employ and pay all fees for
title companies, surveys, escrows,
appraisers,
environmental
audits,
and all other costs necessary for the
acquisition of such property.
Section 3. That the consideration
to be paid for such property shall
not exceed its fair market value.
Section 4. That all costs of acquisition of land shall be paid from
Fund No. 01-999800-638000, Request
No. 45706.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Community and Economic
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance.
Ord. No. 1218-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with EBC Fery Development Corporation for Community
Outreach Program through the use
of Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with EBC Fery Development
Corporation
for
Community
Outreach Program for the public purpose of providing community outreach services through the use of
Ward
10
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $55,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

1314

June 20, 2001
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1219-01.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 by enacting
new Section 433.08 of the Codified
Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976,
relating to the use of cell phones in
motor vehicles.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Section 433.08, to read as follows:
Section 433.08 Use of Telephones
in Motor Vehicles Regulated
(a) No person shall operate a
motor vehicle on any street or highway while also operating a cell
phone or other mobile telephone,
unless the telephone is equipped and
operated with a speakerphone or
earphones so that the driver is not
holding the telephone while talking
or listening.
(b) It shall be an affirmative
defense to this section that the person, at that at time of the commission of the offense, was in need of
emergency assistance and was calling for police, fire or emergency
medical assistance.
(c) Whoever violates division (a)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Law.
Ord. No. 1220-01.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 1737-2000, passed October 2, 2000,
to authorize the Director of Community Development to enter into a
grant agreement with Kamm’s Corner Development Corporation for the
acquisition of certain property to
promote the public purpose of creating or preserving jobs through the
use of Ward 21 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

June 20, 2001
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1737-2000,
passed October 2, 2000 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement
with
Kamm’s
Corner
Development Corporation for the
acquisition of 16730 Lorain Avenue
to promote the public purpose of creating
and
preserving
jobs
and
employment opportunities to preserve the welfare of the State, and
eradicating blight through the use
of Ward 21 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Kamm’s Corner Development Corporation for the acquisition
of 16730 Lorain Avenue to promote
the public purpose of creating or
preserving jobs and employment
opportunities to preserve the economic welfare of the Sate, and eradicating blight, through the use of
Ward
21
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1737-2000,
passed October 2, 2000 are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1221-01.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
enter into a Lease with Radiant
Energy Services to design, install
and maintain an aircraft deicing
facility at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into a Lease with Radiant Energy
Services to design, install and maintain an aircraft deicing facility at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport to be located _____ for a
term not to exceed five (5) years for
a rent of _______.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Port Control, Finance, Law; Committees on
Aviaiton and Transportation, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1222-01.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1000-2000,
passed June 19, 2000, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
1590-2000,
passed
November 27, 2000 and Ordinance No.
707-01, passed April 23, 2001, relating
to the public improvement of rehabilitating sewers on Westpark and
Lydian Roads.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1000-2000, passed June 19,
2000, as amended by Ordinance No.
1590-2000, passed November 27, 2000,
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 54 SF
001, from any fund or funds to which
are credited any allocations received
from the Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District to contribute to the
cost of this improvement, and an
amount not to exceed $148,000 from
Fund No 10 SF 166. All funds herein appropriated not expended on the
subject project shall be returned to
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That existing Section 3
of Ordinance No. 1000-2000, passed
June 19, 2000, as amended by Ordinance No. 1590-2000, passed November 27, 2000 and Ordinance No. 70701, passed April 23, 2001 is hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1223-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation, as an agent for
the City of Cleveland, to carry out
the public purpose of providing housing improvement assistance directly
to individuals and families in Ward
15 through the installation of yard
lamps, with the use of Ward 15
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation, as an agent for
the City of Cleveland, to carry out
the public purpose of providing housing improvement assistance directly
to individuals and families in Ward
15 through the installation of yard

1315

13
lamps, with the use of Ward 15
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $25,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1224-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating various health centers; and
authorizing the Director of Public
Health to enter into contract for the
making of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating the following
health
centers:
J.
Glen
Smith,
Miles/Broadway,
McCafferty
and
Tremont, for the Department of Public Health, by contract duly let to
the lowest responsible bidder after
competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding for a gross
price for the improvement, provided,
however, that each separate trade
and each distinct component part of
said improvement may be treated as
a separate improvement, and each,
or any combination, of such trades
or components may be the subject of
a separate contract for a gross
price. Upon request of said director
the contractor shall furnish a correct schedule of unit prices, including profit and overhead, for all
items constituting units of said
improvement. (RL 30520)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Health, Finance.

The City Record

14

June 20, 2001

Ord. No. 1225-01.
By Councilman Jackson (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to YWCA of Cleveland to
hang approximately 30 banners on CPP and CEI utility poles (by separate permission)on E. 40th St. between
Carnegie & Euclid Aves.; on Prospect Ave., to the north & south of the E. 40th St. intersection; Prospect Rd.,
between Prospect & Carnegie Aves.; & Carnegie Ave., between E. 55th & E. 46th St.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of
the Council of the City of Cleveland, and assignable by the Permittee with the written consent of the Director
of Public Service to the YWCA of Cleveland, 3101 Euclid Avenue, Suite 711, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, its successors
and assigns to hang approximately thirty (30) banners using Cleveland Public Power and Cleveland Electric Illuminating utility poles, (by separate permissions) to identify and announce the opening of their new YWCA
Women’s Center at 4019 Prospect Avenue, and said banners will encroach into the public right-of-way of East
40th Street, between Carnegie and Euclid Avenues; Prospect Avenue, to the north and south of the East 40th
Street intersection; Prospect Road, between Prospect and Carnegie Avenues; and Carnegie Avenue, between East
55th and East 46th Streets at the following locations and pole numbers:
CLEVELAND ELECTRIC ILLUMINATING COMPANY UTILITY POLES
POLE LOCATION:

POLE NUMBER:

East 40th Street between
Carnegie & Euclid Avenues

538973, 507451,
53448, 24049,
538972, 538971.

CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER COMPANY UTILITY POLES
POLE LOCATION:

POLE NUMBER:

Prospect Avenue (North Side)
2nd Street Light West of E. 40th St.
1st Street Light West of E. 40th St.
1st Street Light East of E. 40th St.
2nd Light Pole East of E. 40th St.

B31-3
B31-2
B29-1
B29-2

Prospect Avenue (South Side)
2nd Street Light West of E. 40th St.
1st Street Light West of E. 40th St.
1st Street Light East of E. 40th St.
2nd Street Light East of E. 40th St.

B30-2
B30-1
B29-17
B29-18

Prospect Road (Northeast Side)
1st Street Light South of Prospect Ave.
2nd Street Light South of Prospect Ave.
1st Street Light East of E. 46th St.
2nd Street Light East of E. 46th St.
1st Street Light North of Carnegie Ave.

B29-31
B29-30
B29-29
B29-28
B29-27

Prospect Road (Southwest Side)
1st Street Light South of Prospect Ave.
2nd Street Light South of Prospect Ave.
1st Street Light West of E. 46th St.
1st Street Light East of E. 46th St.
1st Street Light North of Carnegie Ave.

B29-20
B29-21
B29-22
B29-24
B29-26

Carnegie Avenue (North Side)
2nd Street Light West of E. 55th St.
1st Street Light West of E. 55th St.
1st Street Light East of E. 55th St.
2nd Street Light East of E. 55th St.

B50-47
B50-49
KT2-33
K3-28

Carnegie Avenue (South Side)
At Prospect Road
1st Street Light East of E. 55th St.
2nd Street Light East of E. 55th St.

E2-117A-4-3
K3-3
K3-4

Section 2. That said banners will be hung within the public right-of-way of portions of the streets as aforesaid,
and said banners will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner
of Engineering and Construction.
Section 3. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right, privilege
or permission to use or to attach or affix any object to poles described in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 4. That the permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Service, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.

1316

June 20, 2001
Ord. No. 1226-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the acquisition and disposition of
real property and the improvements
located thereon comprising Rainbow
Terrace
Apartments, accepting a
grant from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development in connection with the redevelopment of that property, authorizing agreements with the United
States Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development and with Vesta
Corporation, or its designee, in connection therewith and authorizing
and approving related matters.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Section 203 of the Housing and
Community
Development
Amendments of 1978, 12 U.S.C. §1701z-11, as
amended by Section 101(b) of the
Multifamily Housing Property Disposition Reform Act of 1994 (as so
amended, the “Act”) and regulations
promulgated pursuant thereto (the
“Regulations”), the United States
Department of Housing and Urban
Development, acting by and through
the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development (“HUD”), has determined to dispose of certain real
property, the improvements thereon
and a Housing Assistance Payments
(“HAP”) contract, tenant leases and
other
personal
property
related
thereto, all located in the City of
Cleveland (the “City”) known as
Rainbow Terrace Apartments (collectively, the “Property”); and
Whereas, pursuant to the Act and
the Regulations, HUD has determined that it is necessary and
appropriate to make available an
up-front grant in an amount presently
estimated
not
to
exceed
$11,302,962.00
in
connection
with
rehabilitation and development and
other related development of the
Property; and
Whereas, in order to provide the
up-front grant in the most economically
efficient
manner
possible,
HUD wishes to convey title to the
Property to the City pursuant to a
Contract for Sale (the “HUD Contract for Sale”) between HUD and
the City, and to make the up-front
grant available pursuant to an UpFront Grant Agreement (the “Grant
Agreement”) between HUD and the
City, a copy of which is in File No.
1226-01-A (the “File”); and
Whereas, Vesta Corporation, or its
designated successors or assigns
(the “Developer”) has offered to purchase the Property along with other
City-owned
property
(the
HUDowned property and the City-owned
property jointly referred to herein
as the “Redevelopment Property”)
from the City and to redevelop a
portion of the Redevelopment Property into affordable rental housing;
and
Whereas, this Council believes
that the acquisition of the Property
from HUD pursuant to the HUD Contract for Sale and the sale of the
Redevelopment
Property
to
the
Developer by private negotiation
and the redevelopment of the Redevelopment Property by the Developer pursuant to a Redevelopment
Agreement
(the
“Redevelopment
Agreement”) is in the best interest
of the City and is the best means of
accomplishing the necessary redevelopment of the Redevelopment
Property in order to carry out the
City’s public purpose of providing
safe, decent and sanitary affordable
housing in the City; and

The City Record
Whereas, in order to complete the
redevelopment of the Redevelopment Property in accordance with
the Act, the Regulations and the
Redevelopment
Agreement,
the
City intends to loan the proceeds of
the up-front grant to the Developer
pursuant
to
the
Redevelopment
Agreement
and
upon
mutually
agreeable terms and conditions as
provided
in
the
Redevelopment
Agreement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency ordinance providing for the public peace, property, health and safety in that the proposed acquisition, sale and redevelopment of the Redevelopment Property will improve the welfare of the
City and its residents by accomplishing the aforesaid public purpose; now therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. This Council determines
that, in order to carry out the City’s
public purpose of providing safe,
decent and sanitary affordable housing in the City, and notwithstanding
and as an exception to any provision of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
and the Director of Community
Development, as appropriate, are
hereby authorized to execute and
deliver, on behalf of the City, the
HUD Contract for Sale and pursuant
thereto to accept title to the Property, consisting of Permanent Parcel
Nos. 125-15-003, 125-15-004, and 125-15005, as more fully described in the
legal descriptions in the File, which
File also includes a legal description for City-owned land being Parcel No. 125-15-002, the improvements
thereon, the HAP contract, tenant
leases and the other personal property related to the operation and
maintenance of the Property.
Section
2.
That
this
Council
determines that, in order to complete the redevelopment of the
Redevelopment Property, and notwithstanding and as an exception
to any provision of the Codified
Ordinances
of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976, the Mayor and the Director of
Community Development, or either
one of them, are hereby authorized
to execute and deliver, on behalf of
the City, the Grant Agreement and
accept the up-front grant on behalf
of the City. The grant proceeds are
hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in the Grant Agreement
and
the
Redevelopment
Agreement.
Section 3. That this Council finds
and determines that, in order to
carry out the City’s public purpose
of providing safe, decent and sanitary affordable housing in the City,
it is necessary and appropriate to
sell the Redevelopment Property to
the Developer and cause its redevelopment through the rehabilitation, equipping and improvement of
the Property to be made by the
Developer.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to any provision of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this Council
finds and determines that disposition of the Redevelopment Property
by negotiated sale is in the City’s
best interests; authorizes the disposition of the Redevelopment Property
by
negotiation,
subject
to
approval by the Board of Control;
and approves the Redevelopment
Agreement and the conveyance of
the Redevelopment Property to the

1317

15
Developer and the loan of the upfront grant proceeds to the Developer upon the terms and conditions
set forth in the Redevelopment
Agreement. This Council authorizes
and directs the Mayor and the Director of Community Development, or
either one of them, to execute and
deliver, on behalf of the City the
Redevelopment
Agreement,
with
such changes or amendments that
are not inconsistent with this Ordinance and that are approved by the
Director of Community Development
as not being substantially adverse
to the City, with signing and delivery of the Redevelopment Agreement, or amendments thereto, being
conclusive
evidence
of
such
approval. This Council authorizes
and directs the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies, the Mayor
and the Director of Community
Development, as appropriate to execute and deliver to the Developer,
upon satisfaction of the applicable
conditions precedent set forth in the
Redevelopment Agreement, a quitclaim deed (the “Deed”) and related
assignments, bills of sale or other
agreements conveying the Redevelopment
Property
(including
the
HAP contract, the leases and the
other personal property related to
the operation and maintenance of
the Project) to the Developer; provided that Deed shall contain such
restrictive covenants, reversionary
interests or similar provisions as
may, in the judgment of the Director of Community Development, be
required to ensure the elimination of
blight and deterioration and for the
prevention of recurrence of said conditions, and shall specifically contain a provision against the creation
of advertising signs or billboards
other than permitted identification
signs.
Section 5. That the Mayor, the
Director
of
Community
Development, the Director of Finance, the
Director of Law, the Clerk of Council and other City officials, as appropriate, are authorized to provide
such information and to execute,
certify or furnish such other documents, and do all other things as are
necessary for or incidental to carrying out the conveyance of the Redevelopment Property pursuant to the
terms of the HUD Contract for Sale
and the Redevelopment Agreement.
The loan of the HUD up-front grant
may be made as one loan in multiple installments or as multiple loans
in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $11,302,962.00 and the obligation of the Developer to repay the
loan may be subordinate to the
obligations of the Developer under
any other financing arrangements
for the Property improvements. Notwithstanding and as an exception to
any provision of any Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, if
determined
by
the
Director
of
Finance to be advantageous to the
financing of the Property improvements, the City may evidence all or
a portion of the loan by accepting
obligations exempt from federal
income tax under Section 103 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, and issued for the purpose
of funding the Property improvements. The Mayor, the Director of
Community Development, the Director of Finance, the Director of Law
and other City officials, as appropriate, are hereby authorized to
accept such security instruments
and execute and deliver such agreements as may be necessary to

16
secure repayment of the loans consistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance.
Section 6. That this Council finds
and determines the sale of the Redevelopment Property for the consideration provided in the Redevelopment Agreement is satisfactory and
proper, and that the redevelopment
of the Redevelopment Property with
affordable housing units will further the City’s objective of providing additional safe, decent and sanitary affordable housing in the City
and improve the health, safety and
economic welfare of the residents of
the City, all of which is hereby
determined to be substantial additional valuable consideration to the
City.
Section 7. That it is found and
determined that all formal actions
of this Council and any of its committees concerning and relating to
the passage of this Ordinance were
taken, and that all deliberations of
this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in those formal
actions were held, in meetings open
to the public in compliance with all
legal requirements, including, without limitation, Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code.
Section 8. That it is found and
determined, and is hereby represented and recited, that the provisions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33
(including the provisions of Section
33 with respect to readings on three
separate days or dispensing with
such readings by a two-thirds vote
of all members of the Council), 36,
37, 48 and all other applicable provisions of the City’s Charter and the
rules of this Council have been fully
complied with and this Ordinance
was passed in conformity therewith.
Section 9. That each section and
each part of each section of this
Ordinance is hereby declared to be
an independent section or part of a
section and, notwithstanding any
other evidence of legislative intent,
it is hereby declared to be the controlling legislative intent that if any
such section or part of a section or
any provision thereof, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remaining sections or parts of sections and the application of such
provisions to any other person or
circumstance, other than those as to
which it is held invalid, shall not be
affected thereby, and it is hereby
declared to be the legislative intent
that the other provisions of this
Ordinance would have been passed
independently of such section, or
parts of a section, so held to be
invalid.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property,
health and safety of the City by providing funds to assist in the redevelopment of the property and the
provision of safe, decent and sanitary affordable housing in the City
and, provided it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the
members elected to Council, it shall
take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval
by the Mayor; otherwise it shall
take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by
law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance; Committees
on Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1227-01.
By Councilman Johnson.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance 606-2000,
passed April 17, 2000, to authorize
and approve a mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance program for the
public purpose of providing housing
for
individuals
and
families,
through the use of Ward 4 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board of the City of Cleveland has
reviewed and approved a program of
second mortgage assistance for purchasers of scattered site housing
being developed by Buckeye Area
Development Corporation; and
Whereas,
Ordinance
606-2000,
passed April 17, 2000 did not specify the use of funds for said second
mortgage assistance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance 606-2000, passed April 17, 2000
is hereby amended to read as follows:
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with Buckeye
Area Development Corporation to
provide funding directly by the City
to individuals and families in order
to promote the sale of scattered site
housing in the City of Cleveland by
using second mortgage financing as
an incentive.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance 606-2000, passed April 17, 2000
is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1228-01.
By Councilmen Johnson and White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with A Cultural Exchange for
an after school literacy project
through the use of Ward 2, 4 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with A Cultural Exchange for an
after school literacy project in Ward
2 and 4, to further the public purpose of providing educational services for residents of the City of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
2 and 4 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $60,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said

1318

June 20, 2001
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1229-01.
By Councilmen Lewis, Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with Famicos Foundation, or its
designees, to provide financial assistance in the form of Community
Development Float Loans to partially finance various housing development projects.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into one or more
Community Development Float Loan
Agreements with Famicos Foundation, or its designees, to provide
financial
assistance
to
partially
finance the development of Park
Village
Community
Apartments,
Notre Dame Community Homes and
Rockefeller West Townhouses.
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan or loans shall be determined by
the Director of Community Development in accordance with Federal
regulations, state and local law.
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the agreements referenced above
shall not exceed Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) and shall be paid
from Fund No. 14 SF 810, Request
No. 45705.
Section 4. That the Director of
Community
Development
shall
obtain irrevocable, unconditional letters of credit to secure repayment of
said loans. Any security instrument
shall be approved by the Director of
Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan or loans and
to deposit said monies in Fund No.
14 SF 810.
Section 6. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under federal regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of one or more loan applications, closings, and servicing of the
loan or loans.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare said contract or contracts and
such other documents as may be
appropriate to complete the transactions.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

June 20, 2001
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1230-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance 1135-2000,
passed June 19, 2000, to authorize
and approve a mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance program for the
public purpose of providing housing
in the Eco-Village development for
individuals and families, through
the use of Ward 17 Neighborhood
Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board of the City of Cleveland has
reviewed and approved a program of
assistance for purchasers of town
houses being developed by DetroitShoreway Community Development
Organization; and
Whereas,
Ordinance
1135-2000,
passed June 19, 2000 did not specify
the use of funds for said assistance;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance 1135-2000, passed June 19, 2000
is hereby amended to read as follows:
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with DetroitShoreway Community Development
Organization to provide funding
directly by the City for individuals
and families in order to promote the
sale of townhouses in the Eco-Village development in the City of
Cleveland, through the use of Ward
17 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance 1135-2000, passed June 19, 2000
is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1231-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an amendment to Loan Agreement No. 53646
with Otis Associates Limited Partnership, to make modifications to
the contract.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into an amendment to Loan Agreement No. 53646
between the City and Otis Associates Limited Partnership, to cap the
City subsidization of up to twenty
apartments as described in Section
5.15 of said agreement at 10 years
from the date of execution of the
original loan agreement or upon
refinancing, whichever occurs first,
and to make such other modifications to the loan agreement needed
to fully set forth the Low Income
Household Requirements Program
as determined by the Director of
Community Development. All other
loan terms contained in the original
loan agreement shall remain the
same.
Section 2. That the amendment to
the loan agreement herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain such
terms and conditions as said Director deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1232-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to employ one or more professional
consultants to provide engineering,
environmental, safety, forensic, and
other services needed for the various divisions of the Department of
Public Utilities, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to employ by contract one or more
consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to provide engineering services; construction inspection services; structural and geotechnical analysis services; permit applications services;
materials testing and analysis services; risk assessments services;
cost-benefit analysis services; laboratory and monitoring services; environmental and safety consulting services; remediation and disposal services; forensic investigations services; hazardous materials remediation and disposal services; water
treatment process assessments and
analysis services; and other related
professional
consulting
services
needed for the Divisions of Water,
Water Pollution Control, and Cleve-

1319

17
land Public Power, Department of
Public Utilities, for a period not to
exceed two years.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Public
Utilities from a list of qualified
consultants
available
for
such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass
by the Director of Public Utilities
for the purpose of compiling such a
list. The compensation to be paid
for such services shall be fixed by
the Board of Control. The contract
herein authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved
by the Director of Public Utilities,
and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 52 SF 001,
Request No. 33886
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Utilities, Finance.
Ord. No. 1233-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Parkworks for Adult
Basic Landscaping Training Program in order to carry out the public purpose of providing job training
through the use of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Parkworks to provide an Adult
Basic Landscaping Training Program in order to carry out the public purpose of providing job training
through the use of Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $17,250 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

18
Ord. No. 1234-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement contract of shredding services, for the
various divisions of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
shredding services in the approximate amount as purchased during
the preceding year, to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies upon a unit basis for
the various divisions of City government. Bids shall be taken in
such manner as to permit an award
to be made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract
for each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a
period less than a year may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of
Purchases and
Supplies until provision is made for
the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 43025)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1235-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance 113-2000,
passed January 24, 2000, to authorize and approve a mortgage loan
and/or grant assistance program for
the public purpose of providing
housing for individuals and families, through the use of Ward 8
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board of the City of Cleveland has
reviewed and approved a program of
assistance for purchasers of ten
houses to be rehabilitated by Famicos Foundation; and
Whereas,
Ordinance
113-2000,
passed January 24, 2000, did not
specify the use of funds for said
assistance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance 113-2000, passed January 24,
2000, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with Famicos
Foundation
to
provide
funding
directly by the City for individuals
and families in order to promote the
sale of ten houses in the City of
Cleveland, through the use of Ward
8 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance 113-2000, passed January 24,
2000, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1236-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of office moving services,
for the various divisions of City
government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract
in accordance with the Charter and
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for
the period of one year for the necessary items of office moving services in the approximate amount as
purchased during the preceding year,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the various divisions
of City government.
Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination
of said items as the Board of Control
shall determine.
Alternate bids for
a period less than a year may be
taken if deemed desirable by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 43024)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

1320

June 20, 2001
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Finance,
Law; Committee on Finance.
Ord. No. 1237-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance 1137-2000,
passed June 19, 2000, to authorize
and approve a mortgage loan and/or
grant assistance program for the
public purpose of providing housing
for individuals and families.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board of the City of Cleveland has
reviewed and approved a program of
second mortgage assistance for purchasers of four townhouses being
developed
by
Northeast
Shores
Development Corporation; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 137-2000,
passed June 19, 2000 did not specify
the use of funds for said second
mortgage assistance; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 137-2000, passed June 19,
2000, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with Northeast
Shores Development Corporation to
provide funding directly by the City
to individuals and families in order
to promote the sale of four townhouses in the City of Cleveland by
using second mortgage financing as
an incentive.
Section 2. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 137-2000, passed June 19,
2000, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1238-01.
By Councilman Polensek (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Mr. William
McReynolds to encroach into the
public
right-of-way,
of
Tiverton
Road N.E. to construct a fence covering 50 feet of unimproved right-ofway on this street.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council, and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to Mr. William McReynolds who
resides
at
19705
Shelton
Drive,
Cleveland, Ohio 44110, his successors

June 20, 2001
and assigns, to encroach into the
public
right-of-way,
of
Tiverton
Road N.E. to construct, use and
maintain a fence covering approximately 50.00 feet of unimproved public right-of-way of this street at the
location more fully described as follows:
PROPOSED AREA OF
ENCROACHMENT FOR FENCE/
TIVERTON ROAD N.E.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio and known as being all that
portion of Tiverton Road N.E. (50.00
feet wide) extending Northeasterly
from a point 50.00 feet Northeasterly from the intersection of the centerline of Tiverton Road N.E. with
the centerline of Shelton Drive N.E.
to its Northeasterly terminus.
Section 2. That said encroachment,
is to be located within the public
right-of-way as aforesaid in Section
1, and will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the Commissioner of
Engineering and Construction, and
that all other required permits,
including a building Permit, shall
be obtained before said fence is constructed.
Section 3. That the Permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when, in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Committees
on Public Service, Finance.
Ord. No. 1239-01.
By Councilmen Reed, Jones, White,
Johnson,
Britt,
Jackson,
Willis,
Coats, Polensek, Rybka, Cimperman,
Gordon, Westbrook, Brady, Sweeney
and Dolan.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Murtis H. Taylor MultiService Center for Ninth Annual
African American Family Day Picnic through the use of Ward 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 18, 19,
20, and 21 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service
Center for their African American
Family Day Picnic for the public
purpose of providing community
relations to City of Cleveland residents.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $20,500 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said

The City Record
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1240-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance 1083-2000,
passed June 12, 2000, to authorize
and approve financial assistance for
the Harvard School Senior Apartments project, to carry out the public purpose of providing housing for
individuals in the City of Cleveland,
through the use of Ward 12 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board of the City of Cleveland has
reviewed and approved financial
assistance to Slavic Village Development for the Harvard School
Senior Apartments project, to carry
out the public purpose of providing
housing for individuals in the City
of Cleveland; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance 1083-2000, passed June 12, 2000
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $202,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 2. That Section 2 of Ordinance 1083-2000, passed June 12, 2000
is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1241-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into a grant agreement with Boys and Girls Club of
Cleveland for their Positive Place for
Kids Programs in order to carry out
the public purpose of providing educational and recreational programs
for children through the use of Ward
12 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

1321

19
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Boys and Girls Club of
Cleveland for their Positive Place
for Kids Programs in order to carry
out the public purpose of providing
educational and recreational programs for children through the use
of Ward 12 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $150,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.
Ord. No. 1242-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with Morgana Little League
for equipment and supplies for the
youth little league baseball program, to carry out the public purpose of providing recreational services for children in the City of
Cleveland, through the use of Ward
12 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with Morgana Little League for
equipment and supplies for the
youth little league baseball program, to carry out the public purpose of providing recreational services for children in the City of
Cleveland, through the use of Ward
12 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $10,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

The City Record

20
Ord. No. 1243-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Sister Servants of
Mary for secular outreach programs
to elderly shut-ins, to carry out the
public purpose of providing senior
social services through the use of
Ward
12
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with Sister Servants of Mary
for secular outreach programs to
elderly shut-ins, to carry out the
public purpose of providing senior
social services, through the use of
Ward
12
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $10,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

Ord. No. 1244-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development
to
enter
into
an
agreement with University Settlement for the hunger program, to
carry out the public purpose of
providing food to persons and families in need, through the use of
Ward
12
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with University Settlement for the
hunger program, to carry out the
public purpose of providing food to
persons
and
families
in
need,
through the use of Ward 12 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $10,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

June 20, 2001
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTION REFERRED
Res. No. 1245-01.
By Councilmen Willis and Jackson.
An emergency resolution urging the
Federal, State and local agencies to
conduct an investigation of Government Lien Service and the conduct of
its business in the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, Government Lien Service owns property in the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland seeks to request an
investigation into Government Lien
Service’s business practices with
respect to this property; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, property, health
or safety in that any result of an
investigation of Government Lien
Service and the conduct of its business will benefit Cleveland residents; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Federal, State and local government to conduct an investigation of
Government Lien Service and its
business practices and to transmit
the results of the investigation of
the Clerk of Cleveland City Council.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit copies
of this resolution to the appropriate
Federal, State and local agencies.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Referred to Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance.

FIRST READING ORDINANCES REFERRED
Ord. No. 1246-01.
By Councilman Coats (by departmental request).
An ordinance to assess the cost and expense of construction and repairing of sidewalks and curbing. (Endora
Avenue Assessment).
Whereas, pursuant to Resolution No. 813-99 adopted May 3, 1999, written notice requiring the laying, re-laying
and repairing of sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters and/or castings, including adjustments of utility
boxes, where necessary, in front of premises hereinafter set forth was duly served upon the owners in the manner
prescribed by law, but which sidewalks and curbing were not constructed or repaired by the owners of said
premises, the same being done by the City of Cleveland, pursuant to Section 165 of the Charter; and,
Whereas, the Director of Finance has reported to this Council on the 18th day of June, 2001, all of the expenses
of such construction and repairing by the City of Cleveland, and,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the purpose of paying for the cost and expense of constructing and repairing of sidewalks,
driveway aprons, curbs, gutters and/or castings, including adjustments of utility boxes, where necessary, there
be and hereby is levied and assessed upon the following described property abutting said improvements situated
in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio, the following respective amounts:
PERMANENT
PARCEL

OWNER
NAMES

LOCATION
ADDRESS

TOTAL
AMOUNT

117-12-027
117-13-019
117-13-020
117-13-056
117-13-057

LORETTA WILLIAMS
ALEESE SANDERS
HILLARY WORKMAN
MURRY L. MAXWELL
WILLIE MAE RUCKER

1894 COLONNADE AVE.
1893 COLONNADE AVE.
1890 LAMPSON AVE.
16707 ENDORA AVE.
1890 MANNERING AVE.

$
$
$
$
$

1322

2,748.00
3,924.60
5,657.30
4,526.40
3,181.30

June 20, 2001
117-13-092
117-13-093
117-14-001
117-14-002
117-14-003
117-14-004
117-14-005
117-14-006
117-14-007
117-14-008
117-14-009
117-14-011
117-14-012
117-14-013
117-14-014
117-14-015
117-14-016
117-14-017
117-14-018
117-14-019
117-14-020
117-15-001
117-15-002
117-15-003
117-15-004
117-15-005
117-15-006
117-15-007
117-15-008
117-15-009
117-15-010
117-15-011
117-15-012
117-15-013
117-15-014
117-15-015
117-15-016
117-15-017
117-15-018
117-15-019
117-15-020
117-15-021
117-15-022
117-15-080
117-16-020
117-16-021
117-16-059
117-16-060
117-16-097
117-16-114
117-17-013

The City Record
D'ANGELO SPENCER
1ST NATIONWIDE MORT.
ANITA R. HAMZAH
JAMES S. TARVER
WILLIE JOE ROBINSON
EDDIE JONES JR.
SUSAN CUNNINGHAM
REGINA CLEGGS
JANICE SPEARS
CHARLES R. JACKSON
BIRDALE WEST
ROBERT HOSTEMEIER
DELLA L. CARPENTER
LYNN WHITE SYLVERNA
CLAUDIA D. CALDWELL
ANTHONY PETERSON
EUGENE BARKER
EUGENE BARKER
JOHNNIE F. JARRETT
CAROL DEARING
CLEO HAYNES
CONSUELO HILL
MICHAEL R. WILLIAMS
GENEVA J. WILLIAMS
DENZIL DUHANEY
BERNICE M. GREER
JUANITA H. SHEPHARD
THERON S. SAMS
HIAWATHA L. SHIVERS
C TESMER LEONA
CHARLIE J. PERKINS
ALLEN AIKENS
JOE CASIAS
LISA LATHAN
OTIS FLANNIGAN
WILLIAM A. CALHOUN
BERNARD LEMON
L EDWARDS COLEMAN
ANDREW BRAXTON
MATTIE L. JONES
CEDRIC PETERSON
ANTHONY L. HAMILTON
RHONDA L. WALLS
M. YVONNE SAUNDERS
ALFRED E. BARCLAY
LAWRENCE PROP /REH.
WILLIE PEOPLES
BARBARA J. KING
SAM SIMMONS, JR.
SAM SIMMONS, JR.
EDWARD MARTIN

1889 MANNERING AVE.
1890 HALDANE AVE.
16600 ENDORA AVE.
16604 ENDORA AVE.
16606 ENDORA AVE.
16608 ENDORA AVE.
16612 ENDORA AVE.
16616 ENDORA AVE.
16620 ENDORA AVE.
16624 ENDORA AVE.
16628 ENDORA AVE.
16706 ENDORA AVE.
16710 ENDORA AVE.
16800 ENDORA AVE.
16804 ENDORA AVE.
16808 ENDORA AVE.
16812 ENDORA AVE.
16902 ENDORA AVE.
16904 ENDORA AVE.
16908 ENDORA AVE.
16910 ENDORA AVE.
16916 ENDORA AVE.
16920 ENDORA AVE.
16924 ENDORA AVE.
17002 ENDORA AVE.
17006 ENDORA AVE.
17012 ENDORA AVE.
17014 ENDORA AVE.
17018 ENDORA AVE.
17022 ENDORA AVE.
17116 ENDORA AVE.
17120 ENDORA AVE.
17200 ENDORA AVE.
17204 ENDORA AVE.
17206 ENDORA AVE.
17212 ENDORA AVE.
17216 ENDORA AVE.
17220 ENDORA AVE.
17224 ENDORA AVE.
17300 ENDORA AVE.
17304 ENDORA AVE.
17308 ENDORA AVE.
17312 ENDORA AVE.
1895 REYBURN AVE.
1887 HALDANE AVE.
1886 REYBURN AVE.
1883 REYBURN AVE.
1882 GRANTHAM AVE.
1874 WILLOWHURST AVE.
1875 WILLOWHURST AVE.
1890 RUDWICK AVE.
TOTAL

21
$
2,248.00
$
3,161.50
$
1,347.60
$
921.10
$
1,676.60
$
1,220.10
$
1,196.40
$
596.40
$
1,606.35
$
1,727.20
$
2,111.88
$
1,521.00
$
1,571.25
$
1,550.43
$
1,578.60
$
1,803.20
$
1,730.90
$
1,612.08
$
1,701.50
$
1,617.78
$
1,609.35
$
1,228.66
$
1,471.20
$
1,848.90
$
1,784.00
$
1,572.30
$
1,545.93
$
1,576.55
$
1,692.10
$
2,589.30
$
1,652.50
$
1,672.10
$
1,593.30
$
1,652.10
$
1,633.30
$
420.00
$
1,552.50
$
1,797.90
$
1,220.00
$
1,681.50
$
1,652.50
$
710.90
$
1,603.10
$
2,536.00
$
4,215.25
$
1,596.00
$
3,231.50
$
1,213.70
$
1,677.50
$
1,586.00
$
8,871.50
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
__
__
__
__
__
__
_
________
$
113,224.91

Section 2. It is determined that the assessments do not exceed the special benefits resulting from the improvement and do not exceed the statutory limit.
Section 3. That the owners of the several lots and parcels of land included in said assessment shall pay the
amounts from them severally due, as set forth in Section 1 above, to the City Treasurer within forty (40) days
from and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, and in default thereof said tax, together with a penalty
of five percent (5%) and interest not to exceed seven and one half percent (7.5%) per annum, shall be payable
to the County Treasurer in five (5) annual installments, and the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses is
hereby authorized and directed to certify all unpaid assessments to the Cuyahoga County Auditor to be entered
on the tax duplicate.
Section 4. That the Superintendent of Sidewalks is authorized and directed to keep the assessments on file in
his office for so long as any of the assessments remain unpaid.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council be and is hereby authorized and directed to cause notice of the levy of
assessment herein provided for to be filed with the County Auditor within twenty (20) days following the passage of this Ordinance.
Section 6. That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Service, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Service, Finance.

1323

The City Record

22

June 20, 2001

Ord. No. 1247-01.
By Councilmen Coats, O’Malley and Polensek (by departmental request).
An ordinance to assess the cost and expense of construction and repairing of sidewalks and curbing. (W. 32nd
St. and Darwin Ave. Assessment).
Whereas, pursuant to Resolution No. 1095-97 adopted June 16, 1997, written notice requiring the laying, relaying and repairing of sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, and gutters, and/or castings, including adjustments of
utility boxes, where necessary, in front of premises hereinafter set forth was duly served upon the owners in the
manner prescribed by law, but which work was not undertaken by the owners of said premises, the same being
done by the City of Cleveland, pursuant to Section 165 of the Charter; and,
Whereas, the Director of Finance has reported to this Council on the 18th day of July, 2001, all of the expenses
of such construction and repairing by the City of Cleveland, and,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That for the purpose of paying for the cost and expense of constructing and repairing of sidewalks, driveway aprons, curbs, gutters and/or castings, including adjustments of utility boxes, where necessary, there be and hereby is levied and assessed upon the following described property abutting said improvements situated in the City of Cleveland, County of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio, the following respective
amounts:
PERMANENT
PARCEL

OWNER
NAMES

LOCATION
ADDRESS

TOTAL
AMOUNT

011-16-034
011-16-035
011-16-036
011-16-037
011-16-065
011-16-066
011-17-053
011-17-054
011-21-073
011-21-107
011-21-139
011-21-140
011-22-002
011-22-003
011-22-004
011-22-006
011-22-007
011-22-008
011-22-009
011-22-010
011-22-033
011-22-034
011-22-058
112-23-034
112-23-035
112-24-156
112-24-157
112-24-158
112-24-159
112-24-160
112-24-161
112-24-162
112-24-163
112-24-164
112-24-165
112-24-166
112-24-167
112-24-168
112-24-169
112-24-170
112-24-171
112-24-173
112-24-174
112-25-029
112-25-030
112-25-031
112-25-032
112-25-033
112-25-034
112-25-037
112-25-038
112-25-039
112-25-040
112-25-041
112-25-042
112-25-043

A. KUCZYNSKI
DAVID HAMILTON
JAMES R ROUSH
CYNTHIA L. MAKUH
JANINA J. BALAO
ANTHONY S. ARTINO
WM. C. BRYANT
CITY OF CLEVELAND
GARY M. DEROSHA
MARY E. FRANKS
CHERYL M. TANCAK
SHAYNE M. VENTURA
ROBERT J. HOLZ
ALEXANDER KOVALSKY
RAYMOND JOHNSON III
EMILY M. WOOS
FRANK H. FRINK
JOSEPH VARGUS
ANTHONY C. DANGELO
SUSAN L. MRUK
DAVID A. HROMADA
LEONARD E. GLIVA
CHRISTINE PRATNICKI
JEWELL A. HAWKINS
CHARLES A. ALLEN
CHARLES SANDERS
NAPOLEON COCKRELL
CITY OF CLEVELAND
MINNIE L. SPEARS
CITY OF CLEVELAND
JUANA G. PEREZ
BYRON HOPKINS
WILLIAM TINSLEY
WILLIAM L. SHIVERS
WILLIAM TINSLEY
MARY MOORE
MARY MOORE
RICHARD PAYNE SR.
MICHAEL A. ALEXANDER
LENORA WOMACK
CLEVELAND LAND BANK
ALLTRINNA GRAYSON
MAMIE B. FLEMING
WILLIAM S. SPOFFORD
CLEVELAND LAND BANK
RUFUS SHANNON
CLEVELAND LAND BANK
RUFUS SHANNON
TOM C. JETER
EMMA WILLIAMS
BYRON HOPKINS
EYVONNE DAVIS
CLEVELAND LAND BANK
CLEVELAND LAND BANK
JUDY MONROE
DESHUN S DURDEN

3204 BADER AVE.
4746 W. 32ND STREET
4742 W. 32ND STREET
3201 ARCHMERE AVE.
3200 ARCHMERE AVE.
3201 OAK PARK AVE.
3121 OAK PARK AVE.
4741 W.32ND STREET
3302 SILVERDALE AVE.
3302 RALPH AVE.
3203 BADER AVE.
4774 W. 32ND STREET
4755 W. 32ND STREET
4759 W. 32ND STREET
4763 W. 32ND STREET
4775 W. 32ND STREET
4781 W. 32ND STREET
4785 W. 32ND STREET
3132 WALBROOK AVE.
3131 SILVERDALE AVE.
3132 SILVERDALE AVE.
3121 RALPH AVE.
3122 RALPH AVE.
14315 DARWIN AVE.
14319 DARWIN AVE.
14709 DARWIN AVE.
14705 DARWIN AVE.
14701 DARWIN AVE.
14615 DARWIN AVE.
14611 DARWIN AVE.
14605 DARWIN AVE.
14523 DARWIN AVE.
14515 DARWIN AVE.
14511 DARWIN AVE.
14507 DARWIN AVE.
14505 DARWIN AVE.
14503 DARWIN AVE.
14501 DARWIN AVE.
14417 DARWIN AVE.
14415 DARWIN AVE.
14411 DARWIN AVE.
14405 DARWIN AVE.
14401 DARWIN AVE.
15105 DARWIN AVE.
15101 DARWIN AVE.
15015 DARWIN AVE.
15009 DARWIN AVE.
15005 DARWIN AVE.
15001 DARWIN AVE.
14913 DARWIN AVE.
14907 DARWIN AVE.
14901 DARWIN AVE.
14817 DARWIN AVE.
14817 DARWIN AVE.
14809 DARWIN AVE.
14805 DARWIN AVE.

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

1324

3,130.04
1,393.24
1,255.04
1,718.54
3,243.32
3,597.14
12,907.60
1,340.00
2,310.40
3,718.30
3,108.10
2,923.60
1,124.34
1,401.30
1,446.90
1,404.54
1,112.70
1,296.90
3,169.04
3,754.08
3,526.80
3,706.90
3,090.70
628.25
547.40
941.10
1,321.50
630.00
801.50
630.00
1,056.30
777.00
1,553.20
695.00
909.00
100.00
560.00
574.25
622.00
462.00
445.00
728.00
388.50
3,158.50
920.00
520.00
514.50
1,363.10
634.38
691.40
1,075.40
1,012.20
890.00
1,450.00
472.50
1,309.40

The City Record

June 20, 2001
112-25-044
112-25-045
112-26-001
112-26-002
112-26-003
112-26-005
112-26-006
112-26-007
112-26-008
112-26-009
112-26-010
112-26-012
112-26-013
112-26-014
112-26-016
112-26-017
112-26-018
112-26-019
112-26-020
112-26-021
112-26-022
112-26-023
112-26-024
112-27-003

CARMILLA CARMICHAEL
JOHN KING
SYRACUSE ADHESIVES
SYRACUSE ADHESIVES
AARON M. BROWN
NICOLLETA S. WALTON
DEBORAH HOWARD
LUELLA HARVEY
IRENE WYLEY
ANGELO SIMS
STAR BANK NA
RENITA N. STORY
ROMETTA J. GRIFFIN
ROCHELLE McNORTON
GWENDOLYN RAINES
NANNIE M. TURNER
PHILLIP JAMES
KAY F. RUFUS
RALPH N. WILLIAMS
STARKS EARL
CHRISTINA LANDERS
JACQUELINE GRAYSON
SOURCE ONE MORTG.
CONRAIL CORP.

14801
14719
14516
14512
14500
14416
14412
14410
14404
14400
14320
14312
14308
14304
14218
14214
14210
14208
14204
14202
14118
14114
14108
14617

23
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
DARWIN AVE.
SARANAC AVE.

TOTAL

$
1,342.20
$
1,048.20
$
819.00
$
420.00
$
547.40
$
763.75
$
885.50
$
537.60
$
500.00
$
560.88
$
828.20
$
527.80
$
567.00
$
37.60
$
1,034.00
$
959.00
$
567.00
$
562.10
$
763.00
$
627.00
$
628.25
$
636.30
$
562.30
$
22,189.00
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
__
__
__
__
__
_
_________
$
131,973.98

Section 2. It is determined that the assessments do not exceed the special benefits resulting from the improvement and do not exceed the statutory limit.
Section 3. That the owners of the several lots and parcels of land included in said assessment shall pay the
amounts from them severally due, as set forth in Section 1 above, to the City Treasurer within forty (40) days
from and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, and in default thereof said tax, together with a penalty
of five percent (5%) and interest not to exceed seven and one half percent (7.5%) per annum, shall be payable
to the County Treasurer in five (5) annual installments, and the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses is
hereby authorized and directed to certify all unpaid assessments to the Cuyahoga County Auditor to be entered
on the tax duplicate.
Section 4. That the Superintendent of Sidewalks is authorized and directed to keep the assessments on file in
his office for so long as any of the assessments remain unpaid.
Section 5. That the Clerk of Council be and is hereby authorized and directed to cause notice of the levy of
assessment herein provided for to be filed with the County Auditor within twenty (20) days following the passage
of this Ordinance.
Section 6. That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
Referred to Directors of Public Service, Finance, Law; Committees on Public Service, Finance.

FIRST READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES READ IN FULL
AND PASSED
Ord. No. 1248-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Ward 6 Multi-Cultural Community
Festival to stretch one (1) banner
on a Cleveland Public Power utility
pole (by separate permission) publicizing their annual festival for the
period of July 11, 2001 to August 11,
2001, inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service
is
hereby
authorized
and
directed to issue a permit to Ward
6 Multi-Cultural Community Festival, 2450 MLK Jr. Drive, Cleveland,
Ohio 44104, to install, maintain and
remove one (1) banner to be placed
on Cleveland Public Power utility
poles, (by separate permission), for
the period of July 11, 2001 to August
11, 2001, inclusive, publicizing their
annual festival, and which banner is
to be placed at the following pole

location and on pole number: E14-192
on Woodland Avenue, and which
pole location and banner shall be
approved by the Director of Public
Service in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
placed must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner, and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.

1325

Ord. No. 1249-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 6. (Anita Lillard)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 6; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 6: Anita Lillard.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.

24
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1250-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the American Heart Walk
on September 30, 2001, sponsored by
the American Heart Association.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the American Heart
Walk, sponsored by the American
Heart Walk on September 30, 2001,
beginning at East 9th Street to
Erieside Avenue, Erieside to West
3rd Street, West 3rd Street to Lakeside Avenue, Lakeside to West 6th
Street, West 6th Street to St. Clair
Avenue, St. Clair to West 9th Street,
West 9th Street to Superior Avenue,
Superior to West 3rd Street, West
3rd Street to Lakeside Avenue,
Lakeside to East 9th Street, East 9th
Street to North Coast Harbor and
finish, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1251-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Cleveland Browns
Run, on August 11, 2001, sponsored
by Hermes Race System.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Cleveland Browns
Run sponsored by Hermes Race Systems, on August 11, 2001, beginning
at East 9th Street to Eagle to North
Coast Harbor and Finish, provided
that the applicant sponsor shall
meet all the requirements of Section
411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police and safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the
participants in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the
City of Cleveland shall be fully
indemnified from any and all liability resulting from the issuance of
the same, to the extent and in form
satisfactory to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1252-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Cleveland Corporate
Challenge on July 29, 2001, sponsored by the YMCA and Hermes
Race System.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the Cleveland Corporate Challenge sponsored by the
YMCA and Hermes Race Systems,
on July 29, 2001, beginning at Muny
Parking Lot to South Marginal Road
to East 49th Street and return the
same route, provided that the applicant sponsor shall meet all the
requirements of Section 411.05 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976. Streets may be closed as
determined by the Chief of Police
and safety forces as may be necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit shall
further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified

1326

June 20, 2001
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to
the extent and in form satisfactory
to the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1253-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman and
Melena.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the Rock and Roll
Triathlon on July 22, 2001, sponsored
by the Specific Sports.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, this
Council consents to and approves the
holding
of
the
Rock
and
Roll
Triathlon,
sponsored
by
Specific
Sports, on July 22, 2001, starting at
East 9th Street to Shoreway westbound to West Blvd. Turn east to
Shoreway to East 9th Street, East
9th Street to North Marginal, North
Marginal to East 26th Street to South
Marginal to East 38th Street to King
to East 33rd Street to Hamilton to
East 26th Street to Lakeside, Lakeside to West 9th
Street, West 9th
Street to Lakeside to West 3rd Street
to South Drive to Erieside to East
9th Street and finish, provided that
the applicant sponsor shall meet all
the requirements of Section 411.05 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976. Streets may be
closed as determined by the Chief of
Police or safety forces as may be
necessary in order to protect the participants in the event. Said permit
shall further provide that the City of
Cleveland shall be fully indemnified
from any and all liability resulting
from the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.

June 20, 2001
Ord. No. 1254-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a First
Amendment to Contract No. 56263
with Cleveland Housing Network for
additional HWAP funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a First
Amendment to Contract No. 56263
with Cleveland Housing Network for
additional costs under Home Weatherization Assistance Program and to
increase the amount of the contract
by
$22,477.00,
for
a
total
of
$632,525.00. Said increase shall be
paid from Fund No. 13 SF 892,
Request No. 45707.
Section 2. That this First Amendment
shall
be
prepared
and
approved by the Director of Law
and shall contain such provisions as
he deems necessary to protect the
public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1255-01.
By Councilman Cintron (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement Ordinance No. 610-01, passed
May 21, 2001, by adding new Section
3; and to renumber existing Section
3 to new Section 4, relating to a
requirement contract of crack sealing material.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Ordinance No. 61001, passed May 21, 2001, is hereby
supplemented by adding new Section 3 thereof to read as follows:
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchase authorized by this ordinance
may be made through cooperative
agreement using state procedures.
The Director of Public Service may
sign all documents with the State of
Ohio or any of its political subdivisions that are necessary to effectuate such cooperative efforts, and
may enter into contract with the
vendors selected through that cooperative process.
Section 2. That existing Section 3
is hereby renumbered to new “Section 4.”.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

The City Record
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1256-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 14. (Joseph A.
Konopinski)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 14; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes
an emergency measure providing for
the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 14: Joseph A.
Konopinski.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3. That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1257-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Grace Hospital to stretch banners
across West 14th Street in front of
2307 West 14th Street, for the period from August 1, 2001 to August 20,
2001, inclusive, publicizing the Hospital’s Health Fair.

1327

25
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Grace Hospital to
install, maintain and remove banners across West 14th Street in
front of 2307 West 14th Street for
the period from August 1, 2001 to
August 20, 2001, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation with the Director of Public
Safety, as to type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from
which a banner will be hung must
be obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on
said banner and said banner shall
be removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1258-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Melena.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
the Sagrada Familia Church to
stretch one (1) banner on Cleveland
Public Power utility poles (by separate permission) publicizing their
annual festival for the period of
June 12, 2001 to June 25, 2001, inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to Sagrada
Familia Church, 7719 Detroit Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44102,
to
install, maintain and remove one (1)
banner to be placed on Cleveland
Public Power utility poles, (by separate permission), for the period of
June 12 2001 to June 25, 2001, inclusive, publicizing their annual festival, and which banner is to be
placed at the following pole locations and pole numbers at: 7750
Detroit Avenue (N) and (S); and

26
which pole and banner locations
shall be approved by the Director of
Public Service in consultation with
the Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be placed must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said banner,
and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1259-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with Cleveland State University to
provide HIV/AIDS program evaluation.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with Cleveland State University for
$75,000 to allow the School of Social
Work to evaluate the HIV/AIDS programs authorized by Ordinance Nos.
1027-01 and 1030-01.
Section 2. That the agencies who
enter into contract with the City
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance Nos. 1027-01 and 1030-01 shall
participate in the evaluation conducted by Cleveland State University.
Section 3. That the costs of the
contract authorized herein shall be
paid from the fund or funds so
appropriated.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.

The City Record
Ord. No. 1260-01.
By Councilman Jones.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 1. (Migel Campbell)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon the
public rights of way outside of the
Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons to engage in peddling outside
of the Central Business District,
and has determined that it is in the
public interest to allow each of
said persons to peddle in Ward 1;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 1: Migel
Campbell.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it received
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1261-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Cimperman, Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on West 58th Street to
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and

1328

June 20, 2001
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 002-31-112 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-31-112
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot Nos. 132 and 133 in J.M.
Hoyt’s Allotment of part of Original
Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 32, 33,
48 and 49, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Page
49 of Cuyahoga County Records, and
together forming a parcel of land
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning in the Northerly line of
said Sublot No. 132, which is also the
Southerly line of Side Avenue, S.W.,
at its intersection with the Easterly
line of West 58th Street (formerly
Waverly Avenue); thence Easterly
along the Southerly line of Side
Avenue, S.W., 81.9 feet to a point
therein and the principle place of
beginning
of
the
following
described parcel; thence continuing
Easterly along said Southerly line
of Side Avenue, S.W., 35 feet to the
Northeasterly corner of said Sublot
No. 132; and the Westerly line of
West 58th Place (13.5 feet wide);
thence Southerly along the Southerly along the Westerly line of West
58th Place, 35.70 feet to a point
being 15 feet Northerly from the
Southeasterly corner of said Sublot
No. 133, 45 feet to a point 80 feet
Easterly from the Easterly line of
West 58th Street; thence Northerly
parallel with said Easterly line of
West 58th Street, 15 feet; thence
Westerly parallel with said Southerly line of Sublot No. 133, 5 feet;
thence Northerly and parallel with
the Easterly line of West 58th
Street, 13.93 feet to a point which is
23.50
feet
Southerly
from
the
Northerly line of said Sublot No. 132,
as measured along a line drawn at
right angles with said Northerly line
of said Sublot No. 132; thence Easterly 12.39 feet to a point, 17.20 feet
Southerly from the Northerly line of
said Sublot No. 132, thence Northerly at right angles with said Northerly line of said Northerly line of said
Sublot No. 132, 17.20 feet to the place
of beginning, according to a survey
by Charles W. Root, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 002-31-113 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordi-

June 20, 2001
nance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-31-113
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 133 in J. M. Hoyt’s Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lots Nos. 32, 33, 48 and 49,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 49 of Cuyahoga County Records, bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Easterly line of
West 58th Street (formerly Waverly
Street) at the Southwesterly corner
of said Sublot No. 133; thence
Northerly along the Easterly line of
West 58th Street, 30.50 feet; thence
Easterly parallel with the Southerly
line of said Sublot No. 133, 80 feet;
thence Southerly parallel with the
Easterly line of West 58th Street,
15.50 feet to a point 15 feet Northerly from the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 133; thence Easterly parallel with the Southerly line of said
Sublot 45 feet to the Westerly line
of West 58th Place; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of West
58th Place, 115 feet to the Southeasterly corner of said Sublot No.
133; thence Westerly along the
Southerly line of said Sublot, 125
feet to the place of beginning, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 002-31-116 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-31-116
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being as being
Sublot No. 136 in James M. Hoyt’s
Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 32 and 33,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 2 of Maps, Page 49 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40
feet front on the Easterly side of
West 58th Street (formerly known
as Waverly Avenue) and extending
back of equal width 125 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 002-31-118 as
more fully described, to Detroit
Shoreway Community Development
Organization.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-31-118
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 137 and all of Sublot No.
138 in James M. Hoyt’s Addition of

The City Record
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lots Nos. 32, 33 48 and 49 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 49 of Cuyahoga County
Records and bounded and described
as follows:
Beginning at the Southwesterly
corner of Sublot No. 138; thence
Northerly 48 feet to a point in the
Westerly line of Sublot No. 137, 8
feet North of the Northerly line of
Sublot No. 138; thence Easterly and
parallel with the Northerly line of
Sublot No. 138, 75.50 feet; thence
Northerly and parallel with the
Westerly line of Sublot No. 137 and
75.50 Easterly therefrom 6 feet;
thence Easterly 49.50 feet to a point
in the Easterly line of Sublot No. 137
distant 14 feet Northerly from the
Northerly line of Sublot No. 138;
thence Southerly along the Easterly
line of Sublots Nos. 137 and 138, 54
feet to the Southeasterly corner of
Sublot No. 138; thence Westerly 125
feet to the place of beginning, and
being a parcel of land having a
frontage of 48 feet on the Easterly
side of West 58th Street, be the
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 002-31-120 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-31-120
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
140 in James M. Hoyt Subdivision of
part of Original Brooklyn Township
Lots Nos. 32, 33, 48 and 49 as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of
Maps, Page 49 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Easterly side of West 58th Street
and extending back of equal width
125 feet deep, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 002-31-121 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-31-121
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
141 in James M. Hoyt’s Subdivision
of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 32, 33, 48 and 49, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Pace 49 of Cuyahoga
County Records and being 40 feet
front on the Easterly side of West
58th Street and extending back
between parallel lines 125 feet to an
alley, as appears by said plat, be the

1329

27
same more or less, but subject to all
legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 002-31-122 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 002-31-122
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
142 in James M. Hoyt’s Subdivision
of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 32, 33, 48 and 49, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Page 49 of Cuyahoga
County Records and being 40 feet
front on the Easterly side of West
58th Street and extending back
between parallel lines 125 feet along
the Northerly side of Aspen Court,
N.W., to the Westerly side of West
58th Place, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 15. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 16. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 17. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 18. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.

28
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1262-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Ordinance No. 817-2000, passed February 12, 2001, by repealing Section
12; and renumbering existing Sections 13 and 14, respectively to new
Sections 12 and 13, relating to
improving the pump station and
reservoir for the Garrett A. Morgan
Water Treatment Plant.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 12 of Ordinance No. 817-2000, passed February
12, 2001, is hereby repealed.
Section 2. That existing Sections
13 and 14 of Ordinance No. 817-2000,
passed February 12, 2001, are hereby renumbered, respectively, to new
“Section 12” and “Section 13”.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1263-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of equipment, furniture and
supplies, for the various divisions of
City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of
equipment, furniture and supplies as
described in File No. 1263-01-A, in
the estimated sum of $1,655,600, to
be purchased by the Commissioner
of Purchases and Supplies upon a
unit basis for the various divisions
of City government.
Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combina-

The City Record
tion of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine.
Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 30519)
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance
may be made through cooperative
agreements using state procedures.
The Director of Finance may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to effectuate
such cooperate efforts and may
enter into contract with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1264-01.
By
Councilman
Patmon
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various vehicles, including labor and materials necessary
for vehicle rehabilitation, for the
various divisions of City government.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of various vehicles, including labor and
materials
necessary
for
vehicle
rehabilitation, as such vehicles and
equipment are described in File No.
1264-01-A, in the estimated sum of
$9,179,500, to be purchased by the

1330

June 20, 2001
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of City government.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
a year may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 30517)
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 108(b) of the Charter, the purchases authorized by this ordinance
may be made through cooperative
agreements using state procedures.
The Director of Finance may sign
all documents with the State of Ohio
or any of its political subdivisions
that are necessary to effectuate
such cooperative efforts and may
enter into contract with the vendors
selected through that cooperative
process.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1265-01.
By
Councilman
Polensek
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various equipment and
vehicles, for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of various equipment and vehicles in the

June 20, 2001
estimated sum of $1,195,370 to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than a year
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 42221)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1266-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance amending Section 2 of Ordinance No. 64101, passed June 11, 2001, relating to
the fuel farm at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 2 of Ordinance No. 641-01, passed June 11,
2001, is hereby amended to read
respectively as follows:
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
to set, impose and collect fees, in
an amount not to exceed the compensation described in Section 1
herein, to be charged to the users
of the fuel farm for the use of the
fuel farm; and that the fees be and
they are hereby appropriated for
the purposes set forth in Section 3
herein.
Section 2. That existing Section 2
of Ordinance No. 641-01, passed June
11, 2001, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives

The City Record
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1267-01.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control
to enter into a Lease Agreement
with Ullrich Family Limited Partnership for the use and occupancy
of certain City-owned land; authorizing the Director of Port Control
to execute a Deed conveying certain
property to Ullrich Family Limited
Partnership, or its designee, subject
to a right-of-way easement to be
retained by the City and declaring
said property no longer needed for
public use.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 552-2000, passed
June 19, 2000 and Ordinance No.
1234-2000, passed July 17, 2000, the
Director of Port Control was granted the authority to acquire certain
rights in the property necessary for
the expansion of Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport
(“Airport”);
and
Whereas, pursuant to such authorization, the Director of Port Control has negotiated the terms for
the purchase of the Ullrich Parcel;
and
Whereas, the Ullrich Parcel is
needed in order to relocate a portion
of Brook Park Road, which relocation is necessary for the expansion
of Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport; and
Whereas, the Director of Port Control desires to lease certain portion
of the Ullrich Parcel to the Ullrich
Family Limited Partnership, or its
designee (“Partnership”); and
Whereas, the Director of Port Control desires to convey that portion
of the Ullrich Parcel, which is not
needed for the relocation of Brook
Park Road, subject to a right-of-way
easement; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter
into
a
Lease
Agreement
(“Lease”) with Partnership for the
use and occupancy of the parcel
described as Exhibit “A” (“Premises”)
and placed in File No. 1267-01-A. The
Lease shall be for a term of ten (10)
years (“Original Term”) with one
five
(5)-year
option
to
renew
(“Option Term”) exercisable by the
City.

1331

29
Annual rent for the Original Term
shall be One Dollar ($1.00) per year;
annual rent for the Option Term
shall be fair market value as determined
by
an
appraisal,
which
appraisal shall be paid for by the
Department of Port Control. The following provisions shall apply, if
applicable:
During the Original Term, City
may recapture the Premises upon
one (1) year’s written notice, if such
recapture is exercised within year
(1) of the Lease.
During the Original Term, City
shall pay Partnership One Hundred
Twenty-Six Thousand Eight Hundred Sixteen Dollars ($126,816.00), if
such recapture is exercised within
year one (1) of the Lease.
During the Original Term, City
shall pay Partnership Ninety Five
Thousand One Hundred Twelve Dollars ($95,112.00), if such recapture is
exercised within year two (2) of the
Lease.
During the Original Term, City
shall pay Partnership Sixth Three
Thousand Four Hundred Eight Dollars ($63,408.00) if such recapture is
exercised within year three (3) of
the Lease.
During the Original Term, City
shall pay Partnership Thirty One
Thousand Seven Hundred Four Dollars ($31,704.00), if such recapture is
exercised within years four (4) of
the Lease.
During the Original Term, if such
recapture is exercised within year
(5) to ten (10), City shall not pay
Partnership.
During the Option Term, if such
recapture is exercised, City shall not
pay Partnership.
Section 2. That the Lease hereby
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall contain
such additional terms and conditions as said Director deems necessary to protect and benefit the public interest.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found
and determined that the property
described
as
“Exhibit
B”
and
placed in the aforementioned file
is no longer needed for a public
purpose.
Section 4. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is hereby authorized to
convey the above-described property
to Partnership. The consideration
for such conveyance shall be the
City’s
acquisition
of
the
land
required for the relocation of Brook
Park Road.
Section 5. That such conveyance,
as authorized in Section 4 hereof,
shall be subject to a highway easement in favor of the City, which
easement is described as Exhibit “C”
and placed in the aforementioned
file.
Section 6. That the conveyance
referred to above in Section 4 shall
be made by Official Deed prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Port Control
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The Deed shall contain such additional terms and conditions as are

30
required to protect the interests of
the parties. The Directors of Port
Control and Law are authorized to
execute such other documents as
may be necessary.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Ord. No. 1268-01.
By Councilman Westbrook
An emergency ordinance amending Ordinance No. 668-2000, passed
May 1, 2000, relating to landscaping
and maintaining a parcel located at
the intersection of Madison Avenue
and West Boulevard in Ward 18.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 668-2000,
passed May 1, 2000, are hereby
amended to read respectively as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
an agreement with the Madison
Merchants Organization to landscape and maintain a parcel located at the intersection of Madison
Avenue and West Boulevard in
Ward 18.
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into an
agreement or to issue a permit to
the Madison Merchants Organization to allow for the landscaping
and maintenance of a parcel located at the intersection of Madison
Avenue and West Boulevard for
purposes of beautifying the neighborhood.
Section 2. That the Title and existing Section 1 of Ordinance No. 6682000, passed May 1, 2000, are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read

The City Record
third time in full. Passed. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
FIRST READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS READ IN FULL
AND ADOPTED
Res. No. 1269-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution approving Adelphia’s System Upgrade Plan
as
presented
in
its
Quarterly
Upgrade Report submitted to Council on May 30, 2001, and filed in File
No. 1269-01-A.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland approved Ordinance No
1729-2000 on October 16, 2000, which
approved the request of Cablevision
of Cleveland, L.P. to transfer its
cable television franchise to Adelphia Cleveland LLC, and approved
an extension of said franchise term;
and
Whereas, Section 1 (G) of said
Ordinance requires that Adelphia
complete an upgrade of the Cable
System in the City to a minimum of
860 MHZ within thirty-two (32)
months of the completion of the
transfer of the franchise to Adelphia
or by June 1, 2003, whichever occurs
first, and due to the fact that the
franchise was transferred effective
November 25, 2000, the effective date
of Ordinance No. 1729-2000, Adelphia
is required to complete the System
Upgrade by the earlier date of June
1, 2003; and
Whereas,
the
System
Upgrade
must be constructed in a manner
that as sections of the upgraded
System are completed the upgraded
sections are activated and new services must then be provided to Subscribers; and
Whereas, Adelphia is required by
Ordinance No. 1729-2000 to present to
Council a full and complete design
report and construction schedule for
the
planned
upgrade,
and
has
informed Council that such Design
Report, including the construction
schedule, was presented to Council
on May 30, 2001, which is on file in
File No. 1269-01-A, and thus Council
has thirty (30) days under the Ordinance to approve the Design Report,
which shall then be deemed an
amendment to the Ordinance and the
Franchise; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
approves the Design Report and construction
schedule
presented
to
Council on May 30, 2001, which is
entitled “Adelphia, City of Cleveland, Quarterly Report,” and urges
Adelphia to complete the upgrade
and place it into service at the earliest possible time.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.

1332

June 20, 2001
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Res. No. 1270-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency resolution fixing
the summer schedule of meetings of
the Council of the City of Cleveland.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the schedule of
meetings during the summer months
for the Council of the City of Cleveland is hereby fixed as follows:
July 18, 2001
August 15, 2001
A notice identifying the time of the
meeting as well as a schedule of
committee meetings, if any, to be
held prior to the meeting shall be
prepared by the Clerk of Council
prior to each of the above meeting
dates. The Council will resume regular session at 7:00 P.M. on Monday,
September 10, 2001.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Res. No. 1271-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency resolution urging
an extended moratorium on any
additional dredgings being placed
on the Confined Disposal Facility
north of Gordon Park, known as
Dike 14, until a planning process
can be completed and other strategies for disposal are considered.
Whereas, Dike 14, located north of
Gordon Park in Cleveland, is a Confined Disposal Facility (“CDF”) that
was built by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers for the disposal of dredging material from the Cuyahoga
River and the Port of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers ended its use of Dike 14
as a Confined Disposal Facility
when Cleveland’s new CDF, Dike
10B, located at Burke Lakefront Airport, opened in March of 1999; and
the closing of Dike 14 and the opening of Dike 10B by the Corps were

June 20, 2001
stipulated in the Final Environmen tal Impact Statement, Modifications
to Dike 14, September 1993, as the
actions that would make the 88-acre
Dike 14 available for State Park
use; and
Whereas, after the Army Corps
ended its use of Dike 14 as a CDF,
it turned the property over to the
Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County
Port
Authority pursuant to its agreement
with the Port Authority as the local
cooperating agency; and the intention of the City, the State and the
Port Authority has always been that
the property be turned over to the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources (ODNR) to become part of
the Lakefront State Park; and
Whereas, the Port Authority now
has expressed an intention to use
Dike 14 for private dredge disposal,
due to current apparent limitations
on the availability of Dike 10B
north of Burke Airport for such disposal; and
Whereas, Dike 14 has diverse
coastal wildlife habitats which have
ecological, educational and social
value that warrant protection; and
the wetlands, mudflats, grasslands,
shrub lands and woodlands of Dike
14 function as exceptional migratory bird stopover habitats, attracting
tens of thousands of birds each year,
with over 268 species of birds documented at the site; and thus Dike 14
is already a dynamic, year-round
nature area and has the potential,
under the aegis of the State, to provide exceptional educational, recreational and economic benefits to
Cleveland’s neighborhoods, to Cleveland’s 122 schools and 77,000 school
children, and to Northeast Ohio’s residents and visitors of all ages; and
Whereas, flora and fauna surveys
of Dike 14 and a public planning
process are needed to determine
what kind of State Park use is best
for Dike 14; and
Whereas,
U.S.
Senator
George
Voinovich, in April and May of this
year; worked to procure the use of
Dike 10B north of Burke Lakefront
Airport for the deposit of 30,000
cubic yards of private dredge materials from LTV Steel Corporation,
rather than disposing of them at
Dike 14; and
Whereas, the Port Authority has
agreed to a moratorium on further
disposal of dredgings at Dike 14 for
at least 30 days, and an extended
moratorium is now needed to allow
for a planning process to be undertaken and for options for disposal of
the private dredgings to be considered; now therefore
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council urges
the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port
Authority to refrain from any and
all dredge disposal uses of Dike 14
until a planning process can be
undertaken and alternatives to the
disposal of private dredgings at
Dike 14 can be fully considered.
Section 2. That this Council urges
the Mayor and ODNR to initiate a
public planning process for Dike 14
to determine the best use of the land
for State park purposes.
Section 3. That this Council urges
ODNR to conduct flora and fauna surveys and other studies necessary to
determine the status of Dike 14 and
appropriate uses of the property.
Section 4. That this Council urges
the Mayor to refrain from issuing

The City Record
any permits to the Port Authority or
anyone acting on its behalf for the
disposal of dredgings or any filling
and grading of Dike 14 until at least
the completion of studies and planning needed to protect the natural
state of the Dike and to protect the
site for public use.
Section 5. That this Council urges
the Port Authority, the Mayor and
ODNR, to arrange for the transfer of
the property known as Dike 14 to
the City or ODNR for eventual inclusion of the land in the Lakefront
State Park.
Section 6. That upon its passage
by City Council the Clerk of Council shall provide copies of this Resolution to the following: Mayor
White, Samuel W. Speck, Director,
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Scott Zody, Deputy Director,
Real Estate & Land Management,
Ohio
Department
of
Natural
Resources, Stephen L. Pfeiffer, Maritime Director, Cleveland-Cuyahoga
County Port Authority, the Director
of the Port Authority, the Board
members of the Port Authority, and
the Army Corps of Engineers.
Section 7. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
Res. No. 1272-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution strongly
supporting an educational system
that would provide adequate funding to ensure quality education for
our children and stating its opposition to retaining Kenneth Starr to
assist Ohio Attorney General Betty
Montgomery in advocating the position of the state before the Ohio
Supreme Court.
Whereas, education of our children is one of the primary duties
and responsibilities of our community, with such endeavor having a
long-term, palpable impact on all of
us; and
Whereas, there is a case currently
pending in the Ohio Supreme Court
that revolves around the issue of
appropriate methodology and sources
of funding for our public schools; and
Whereas, the Ohio Supreme Court
has twice ruled that the state’s
school funding system is unconstitutional, mainly because it relies too
heavily on local property taxes; and
Whereas, Ohio Attorney General
Betty Montgomery is charged with
advocating the position of the state
legislative leaders; and
Whereas, it has been reported that
the Ohio Attorney General is considering or has retained the services
of Kenneth Starr to assist her in
this matter; and
Whereas, this Council is opposed
to the hiring of Mr. Starr and

1333

31
believes that there are a number of
qualified attorneys located in the
State of Ohio who could work cooperatively with the Ohio Attorney
General on this case; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section
1.
That
this
Council
strongly supports an educational
system that would provide adequate
funding to ensure quality education
for our children and states that it is
opposed to retaining Kenneth Starr
to assist Ohio Attorney General
Betty Montgomery in advocating the
position of the state before the Ohio
Supreme Court.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby directed to transmit a copy of
this resolution to Ohio Attorney General Betty Montgomery and to Ohio
Governor Robert Taft.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Motion to suspend rules. Charter
and statutory provisions and place
on final passage.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read second time. Read
third time in full. Adopted. Yeas 14.
Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
Patmon, White and Willis.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 918-2000.
By Councilmen Dolan, Cimperman
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of removing and
replacing the upper level roadway
at Cleveland Hopkins International
Airport; and authorizing the Director of Port Control to enter into contract
for
the
making
of
such
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation,
City
Planning,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 3, line 2, after “shall”
insert the following:
“not exceed
$5,775,120 and shall”.
2. Insert a new Section 4 to read
as follows:
“Section 4. That the City, through
its Director of Port Control and/or
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, shall not invite bids for the
public improvement authorized herein until the design of the public
improvement is complete and such
design has been presented to the
Aviation and Transportation Committee.”.
3. Renumber existing “Section 4”
to new “Section 5”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.

32
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 920-2000.
By Councilmen Dolan, Cimperman
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
the
North
Terminal
Expansion,
including construction of baggage
claim devices 1 and 2 to remove and
replace baggage claim devices 3, 4,
5, and 6, upgrade of interior mechanical and electrical systems and construction
of
new
offices
and
restrooms; authorizing the Director
of Port Control to enter into contract
for the making of such improvement; and authorizing the Director
to enter into an agreement with
Continental Airlines to buy back
certain airline-owned baggage claim
devices.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and
Transportation,
City
Planning,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. Insert a new Section 5 to read
as follows:
“Section 5. That the City, through
its Director of Port Control and/or
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies, shall not invite bids for
the public improvement authorized
herein until the design of the public improvement is complete and
such design has been presented to
the Aviation and Transportation
Committee.”.
2. Renumber existing “Section 5”
to new “Section 6”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1010-2000.
By Councilmen Willis, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Superior Avenue to
Refreshing Spring Baptist Ministries
Church.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1797-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
make alterations and modifications
in Contract No. 48468 for rehabilitating the West Concourse apron
with Anthony Allega Cement Contractors, Inc., for the Department of
Port Control.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 2208-2000.
By Councilmen Polensek, Lewis
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 405.04 of the Codified Ordinances as amended by Ordinance No.
1109-96, passed December 16, 1996,
relating to storage fee at vehicle
pound.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Legislation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 309-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman and
Dolan.
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 346.01 through 346.09
and 170.06 thereof, relating to LiveWork Overlay Districts.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development,
Community
Development,
City
Planning,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community
and Economic Development, City
Planning,
Legislation,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 4, strike “346.09
and 170.06” and insert in lieu thereof “346.11”; and strike Section 1 in
its entirety and insert in lieu thereof the following:
“Section 1. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Sections 346.01 through 346.11
thereof, to read as follows:
Chapter 346
Live-Work Overlay Districts
Section 346.01 Purpose
The Live-Work Overlay (LWO)
District is established to permit and
promote shared occupancy by residential uses in combination with
work activities in suitable locations.
By
facilitating
establishment
of
such “live-work” space, the district
is intended to meet an identified
need for buildings that combine living space with work space. In addition, the district is intended to assist
in revitalizing areas impacted by
the presence of under-utilized and
deteriorated buildings suitable for
re-use as live-work space.
Section 346.02 Definitions
(a) “Live-Work Unit” means a
room or rooms used by a single
household both as a dwelling unit
and as a “Work Space,” as defined
herein, where such Work Space
occupies at least fifty percent (50%)
of the unit’s total floor area.
The
living space of a Live-Work unit
shall contain a kitchen area and
sanitary facilities.
(b) “Work Space” means an area
within a Live-Work Unit that is
designed or equipped exclusively or
principally for the conduct of work

1334

June 20, 2001
activities and is to be regularly
used for such work activities by one
or more occupants of the unit.
Section
346.03
Mapping
and
Applicability
The LWO District shall be mapped
as an overlay district by an ordinance of Council, and shall be
mapped only in locations where the
underlying
zoning
district
is
a
Business District, a Residence-Industry District, a Semi-Industry District
or a General Industry District. The
regulations of the underlying district shall govern except where in
conflict with the regulations of the
LWO District.
The LWO District
shall be mapped in an area where
the underlying zoning prohibits residential occupancy only if it has
been determined that current and
anticipated future uses in the immediate vicinity will be compatible
with live-work occupancy.
Section 346.04 Certificate of Occupancy
No Live-Work Unit shall be occupied nor shall the use of a LiveWork Unit, including the work use,
be changed without issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy by the
Commissioner of Building and Housing. Such Certificate shall be issued
only if the Commissioner determines
that the proposed work activities
and living space meet all applicable
regulations of these Codified Ordinances, including the Health and
Fire Codes.
Section 346.05 Permitted Uses
All uses permitted in the underlying zoning district shall be permitted in a LWO District except as provided in this section.
(a) Conditionally Permitted Uses.
Notwithstanding otherwise applicable restrictions on residential occupancy in Semi-Industry and General
Industry Districts, such residential
occupancy shall be permitted in a
LWO District as part of a Live-Work
Unit if approved by the City Planning Commission in accordance with
the conditional use criteria of Section 346.06.
(b) Prohibited Uses. The following uses and activities are prohibited within a Live-Work Unit:
(1) amusement and recreation
uses, as listed in Section 343.11;
(2) adult entertainment uses, as
listed in Section 347.07;
(3) pet stores, kennels, animal
hospitals;
(4) gun and firearms sales;
(5) automotive service stations,
and motor vehicle repair garages;
and
(6) liquor sales.
Section 346.06
Conditional Use
Determination
(a) Approval Criteria.
The City
Planning Commission shall approve
establishment of Live-Work space as
a Conditional Use in a General
Industry District or in that portion
of a Semi-Industry District where
residential uses are otherwise prohibited if the Commission determines that the following conditions
have been met.
(1) The subject building was constructed prior to the initial effective
date of this chapter.
(2) Individuals residing in LiveWork Units will not be subject to
excessive levels of noise, vibration,
fire
hazards,
explosion
hazards,
smoke, or other potentially harmful
health or environmental conditions
by existing or likely future indus-

June 20, 2001
trial uses and conditions in the
immediate vicinity.
(3) By virtue of the nature and
location of current and likely future
uses, existing industrial or commercial activities in the immediate
vicinity will not be impaired by the
presence of the proposed Live-Work
Units.
(b) Notice Requirements. Prior to
taking action on any application for
establishment of a Live-Work Unit,
the City Planning Commission shall
notify the Division of Fire of such
application and shall seek its comment on applicable safety issues.
Subsequent to approving establishment of a Live-Work Unit, the Commission shall notify the Division of
Fire of such approval, including the
address of the subject property.
Section 346.07
Dividing Walls,
Access, Identification and Fire Code
Regulations
A wall dividing the living space
from the Work Space is not required
in any Live-Work Unit, but each
Live-Work Unit shall be separated
from all other uses in the building
and shall have separate access
either from the building exterior or
from an interior corridor that is separate from such other uses.
The
bathroom in any Live-Work Unit
shall be enclosed and shall comply
with requirements of the Building
and Housing Code.
All Live-Work
Units shall comply with applicable
Fire Code regulations, including
applicable fire resistance requirements
and
emergency
egress
requirements of the Codified Ordinances. Each exterior door providing access to Live-Work Units shall
be identified by a plaque marked in
lettering at least two (2) inches in
height with the words “Live-Work
Units” or similar language.
Section 346.08 Parking, Sign and
Yard Regulations
(a) Parking. Within a LWO District, no additional parking shall be
required for establishment of a LiveWork Unit in a building which was
constructed prior the initial effective date of this Chapter.
For a
Live-Work Unit proposed in a building first occupied after the initial
effective date of this Chapter, parking shall be provided to meet the
requirements of the underlying zoning district. Such parking requirements shall be applied in a manner
that considers each Live-Work Unit
as a single dwelling unit and that
measures the floor area of Work
Space exclusive of the area devoted
to living space.
(b) Signs. Signs shall be permitted in accordance with the regulations applicable to the underlying
zoning district.
(c) Yards. Within a LWO District,
requirements for residential interior
side yards and rear yards shall not
apply to a Live-Work Unit established in a building which was constructed prior to the initial effective
date of this Chapter.
Section 346.09
Acknowledgment
of Industrial Use
In a General Industry District and
in any portion of a Semi-Industry
District where residential occupancy
is otherwise prohibited, the Certificate of Occupancy establishing a
Live-Work Unit or changing the use
of a Live-Work Unit shall include a
statement, signed by the applicant,
stating the following:
“The applicant acknowledges that the LiveWork Unit is located in an area

The City Record
zoned for industrial uses that may
be incompatible with a typical residential environment. The applicant
further acknowledges that these and
future industrial uses in this district
have the right to operate without
any restrictions other than those
applicable to uses in the underlying
industrial zoning district or otherwise imposed by law.”
Such language shall be included in any lease
or deed pertaining to the Live-Work
space.
Section 346.10
Submission Requirements
In addition to otherwise required
plans and information, any application to establish a Live-Work Unit
or to change the use of a Live-Work
Unit, including the work use, shall
identify the nature of the work
activities to be performed in the
Live-Work Unit and shall be accompanied by a floor plan that identifies those areas to be used as living
space and those areas to be used as
Work Space.
Such plan shall also
identify the nature and location of
equipment,
furnishings
or
other
improvements that cause the Work
Space to meet the definition in division (c) of Section 346.02. For applications subject to the conditional
use provisions of Section 346.06, the
owner or lessor of the property shall
demonstrate that the environmental
condition of the property is not
harmful to human health and safety and is safe for residential use.
Such demonstration may be made
through the issuance of a “No Further Action” Letter by a Certified
Professional pursuant to the requirements for residential sites of Ohio
Revised Code Chapter 3746 et seq.,
(the “Ohio Voluntary Action Program”). A “No Further Action” Letter shall not relieve the owner or
lessor from compliance with any
applicable municipal, state or federal law.
If the applicant does not
possess a “No Further Action” Letter as described above, the applicant
must submit a Phase I or Phase 2
environmental
assessment,
as
applicable, to demonstrate that the
site meets environmental standards
for residential use.
If an environmental assessment shows environmental threats to residential occupancy, then the owner must demonstrate that those conditions have
been abated.
Section 346.11 Right of Appeal
Appeals from the decision of the
City
Planning
Commission
to
approve or disapprove the establishment of a Live-Work space as a Conditional Use in a General Industry
District or in that portion of a SemiIndustry District where residential
uses are otherwise prohibited shall
be made to the Board of Zoning
Appeals.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 437-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 447.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 2459-A-91,
passed December 14, 1992, relating to
the definition of carriage.

1335

33
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 501-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and improving Neff Park and
authorizing the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties to enter
into contract for the making of such
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, City Planning, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. Strike Section 3 in its entirety
and insert in lieu thereof the following:
“Section 3. That an amount not to
exceed Four Hundred Eighty-Eight
Thousand Dollars ($488,000) for said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 10 SF
166, Request No. 47601.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 503-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
and maintaining the North Shore
Collinwood Town Center at the triangle of East 174th Street and
Lakeshore Boulevard and authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into
contract for the making of such
improvements.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, City Planning, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 4, and in Section 1, line 3, strike “and maintaining”.
2. In Section 1, strike lines 7, 8, 9,
and 10 in their entirety and insert
in lieu thereof the following: “Recreation and Properties, by contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement.”.
3. Strike Section 2 in its entirety
and insert in lieu thereof the following:
“Section 2. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into contract for the making of the above
public improvement with the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement,
provided,
however,
that each separate trade and each
distinct component part of said
improvement may be treated as a
separate improvement, and each, or

34
any combination, of such trades or
components may be the subject of a
separate
contract
upon
a
unit
basis.”.
4. In Section 3, strike lines 3, 4,
and 5 in their entirety and insert in
lieu thereof the following: “shall be
paid from Fund No. 10 SF 166,
Request No. 5092.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 504-01.
By Councilman Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and improving McGowan Park,
Crossburn Park, Jefferson Park and
the Maplewood Ball Diamond Complex and authorizing the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
enter into contract for the making
of such improvement.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property and
Recreation, City Planning, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, lines 5 and 6, and
in Section 1, lines 4 and 5, strike “,
Jefferson Park and the Maplewood
Ball Diamond Complex” and insert
in lieu thereof “and Jefferson Park”.
2. In Section 1, at the end, add the
following sentence:
“The proposed
walkway from Kirton Avenue to
McGowan Park may not be installed
without approval by the Councilman
from Ward 20.”.
3. In Section 3, strike lines 4, 5,
and 6 in their entirety and insert in
lieu thereof the following:
“from
Fund No. 10 SF 166, Request No.
5094.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 542-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Cimperman, Lewis and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 327.99, 367.99 and 3103.99 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1076, as amended by
various
ordinances,
relating
to
penalties for violations of the Zoning, Housing and Building Codes.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at Section 327.99(f),
line 1, strike “Commission” and
insert in lieu thereof “Commissioner”.
2. In Section 1, at Section 327.99,
division (f), at the end, strike the
period after “ward” and insert the
following: “and shall provide the

The City Record
Councilperson of each ward with a
written weekly report listing the
violations of this section in their
particular ward.
(g) Authority to enforce the above
listed
misdemeanors
through
issuance of a citation shall expire
and be of no further force and effect
two (2) years after the effective
date of this section.”.
3.
In
Section
1,
at
Section
3103.99(d), line 8, strike “($1000,000)”
and
insert
in
lieu
thereof
“($1,000.00)”; and in line 9, strike
“moths” and insert “months”.
4. In Section 1, at Section 367.99,
division (h), at the end, strike the
period after “ward” and insert the
following: “and shall provide the
Councilperson of each ward with a
written weekly report listing the
violations of this section in their
particular ward.
(i) Authority to enforce the above
listed
misdemeanors
through
issuance of a citation shall expire
and shall be of no further force and
effect two (2) years after the effective date of this section.”.
5.
In
Section
1,
at
Section
3103.99(f), line 3, strike “is” and
insert in lieu thereof “in”.
6. In Section 1, at Section 3103.99,
division (f), at the end, strike the
period after “ward” and insert the
following: “and shall provide the
Councilperson of each ward with a
written weekly report listing the
violations of this section in their
particular ward.
(g) Authority to enforce the above
listed
misdemeanors
through
issuance of a citation shall expire
and shall be of no further force and
effect two (2) years after the effective date of this section.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 612-01.
By
Councilmen
Coats,
Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on St. Clair Avenue to
Lawrence Hunt.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 644-01.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into an agreement
with
Westown
Community
Development
Corporation
for
its
Ward19.com Program in order to
carry out the public purpose of providing additional access to community information through the use of
Ward
19
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;

1336

June 20, 2001
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 704-2001.
By Councilmen Britt, Melena, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 90th Street to
Orca House, Inc.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 712-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 59th and East
57th Streets to Burten, Bell, Carr
Development
Incorporated
or
designee.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 740-01.
By Councilmen Melena, and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development and the Community
Relations Board to expend Community Development Block Grant funds
for fair housing services.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 798-01.
By Councilman Brady.
An emergency ordinance approving a five year comprehensive housing affordability strategy for the
City developed under the “CranstonGonzalez National Affordable Housing Act” (the “Plan”) for the development and maintenance of affordable housing within the City boundaries; ratifying Ordinances authorizing
the
expenditure
of
moneys
raised by taxation to provide, or
assist in providing, housing pursuant to Section 16 of Article VIII,
Ohio Constitution which programs
for housing assistance and Plan
have been reviewed and approved

June 20, 2001
by the City of Cleveland Housing
Advisory Board pursuant to law;
authorizing, approving and ratifying related matters.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 806-01.
By Councilman Cimperman (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Marquette Street N.E.
hereinafter described.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on City Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 808-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with St. Clair Superior
Neighborhood Development Association to support a neighborhood festival in order to carry out the public purpose of sponsoring a festival
through the use of Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, lines 7 and 8, and
in Section 1, line 4, strike “the public purpose of sponsoring a festival”
and insert in lieu thereof “the public
purpose
of
supporting
and
encouraging
appreciation
of
the
arts”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 812-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Melena and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Section 3123.10, thereof relating
to pedestrian barriers along the
Cuyahoga and Old Rivers.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City
Planning,
Finance;
when
amended as follows:
1.
In
Section
1,
at
Section
3123.10(a), at the end, add the following sentence: “Thereafter the
barrier must be maintained per the
requirements of this Building Code.”;
and in division (g), line 7, strike
“division” and insert in lieu thereof
“section”.
Amendment agreed to.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 814-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 551.29 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
amended by Ordinance No. 2433-87,
passed February 1, 1988, relating to
the use of City transfer site.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Legislation, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 2, line 1, after “existing” insert “Section 551.29 of”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 815-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Esperenza, Inc. for
developing and operating a computer lab and educational program to
carry out the public purpose of providing
educational
programming
through the use of Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 817-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 2 of Ordinance No. 951-99,
passed June 14, 1999, relating to a
grant from the Ohio Department of
Transportation
for
the
Eagle
Avenue
Bridge
and
Alternative
Analysis Study, and employing professional consultants to perform the
study.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 818-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community

1337

35
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Touchstone Management for partial funding of
improvements to Hilltop Estates in
order to carry out the public purpose
of improving residents living conditions through the use of Ward 10
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, lines 8 and 9; and
in Section 1, lines 4 and 5, strike
“residents living conditions” and
insert in lieu thereof the following:
“industry and commerce”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 823-01.
By Councilmen Dolan and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants to
provide
professional
services
to
design the replacement of the apron
around Concourse “C”, including
associated utilities, temporary pavement for the maintenance of traffic
on the ramp, and any environmental-related
services
necessary
to
complete the project for the Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 826-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with MetroHealth for
conducting
AIDS/HIV
outreach
activities in order to carry out the
public purpose of providing social
services through the use of Ward 5
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 828-01.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located at 9113 Union
Avenue to Center for Families and
Children.

36
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 832-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Esperenza, Inc. for
agency relocation costs and programmatic assistance in order to
carry out the public purpose of providing
educational
programs
through the use of Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, lines 5 and 6, and
in Section 1, lines 2 and 3, strike
“agency relocation costs and programmatic assistance” and insert in
lieu thereof “developing and operating computer lab and educational
program”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 834-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Gordon,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to lease property known as
23600 Mercantile Road, Unit J, from
Mercantile Associates for a term not
to exceed ten months, for the public
purpose of leasing space to store
goods necessary for the operation of
the Cleveland House of Corrections.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Public Health,
City Planning Commission, Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended
by
Committees on Community and Economic Development, Public Health,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 835-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Gordon
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Aging to expend
Community
Development
Block
Grant funds for the Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP)
and the CHORE Program..
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Public Health,
Finance, Law; Passage recommend-

The City Record
ed by Committees on Community
and Economic Development, Public
Health, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 838-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with Kelly Services, Inc. for the provision of professional services necessary for clerical and secretarial
services, for the Division of Administrative Services, Department of
Community Development.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 841-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into contract with a natural gas supplier to offer a negotiated gas rate to gas customers in the
City of Cleveland on a voluntary
basis.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, line 2, after “contract” and before “with”, insert: “for
a term not to exceed three years”.
2. In Section 3, line 5, after “contain” and before “such”, insert: “a
provision prohibiting the natural
gas supplier from requiring payment of a termination fee if a customer switches natural gas suppliers during the term of the contract
and”.
3. In Section 3, line 6, after “interest.”’ insert the following: “The contract
shall
contain
a
provision
requiring any form of marketing
and/or advertising to be reviewed
by the Public Utilities Committee.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 846-01.
By Councilmen Polensek, Cintron,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Euclid
Creek
Development,
Ltd.
to
encroach into the public right-ofway, over, upon and through Lakeport Road N.E. for the purpose of

1338

June 20, 2001
completing the Water’s Edge Condominiums Phase 2.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 848-01.
By Councilmen Rybka, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 2 of Ordinance
No. 1007-2000, passed October 23,
2000, relating to the sale of Cityowned property no longer needed for
public
use
located
at
6564-6566
Broadway Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation
and
Properties,
City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended
by
Committees on Public Parks, Property, and Recreation, City Planning,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 886-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Shaker Square
Area Development Corporation for
Fairwood
Homeward
Program
Write-down Fund to forward the
public purpose of creating and
renovating housing in the City of
Cleveland
through
the
use
of
Ward
6
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
1. Add a new Whereas Clause
before the existing Whereas Clause
to read as follows:
“Whereas, the Housing Advisory
Board has reviewed the program
described in Section 1 of this Ordinance and has approved such program; and”.
2. Strike the title in its entirety
and insert in lieu thereof the following:
“An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community Development to enter into an agreement
with Shaker Square Area Development Corporation, or its designee, acting as the City’s agent, to implement
a program to assist eligible home
buyers with the rehabilitating and
renovating of homes in order to forward the public purpose of creating
and renovating housing in the City
of Cleveland through the use of Ward
6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.”.
3. Strike Section 1 in its entirety
and insert in lieu thereof the following:
“That the Director of Community
Development is authorized to enter
into an agreement with Shaker
Square Area Development Corpora-

The City Record

June 20, 2001
tion, or its designee, acting as the
City’s agent, to implement a program to assist home buyers with the
rehabilitating and renovating of
homes in the Fairwood neighborhood, according to standards developed by the Director of Community
Development in order to forward the
public purpose of creating and renovating housing in the City of
Cleveland, through the use of Ward
6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 892-01.
By Councilmen Cintron, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance approving certain amendments to the West

25th-Lorain Community Development
Plan for the West 25th/Carroll Plan
Area and for the West 25th/Carroll
Action Area therein.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 893-01.
By Councilmen Cintron, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a project
agreement with Fries & Schuele,
Ltd., an Ohio limited partnership, for
the acquisition, clearance and redevelopment of certain lands in the

37
West 25th-Lorain Community Development Plan Area.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, lines 4 and 5; in
the second whereas clause, line 1;
in the third whereas clause, line 3;
and in Section 1, line 5, strike
“Fries & Schuele, Ltd.” and insert in
lieu thereof “Carroll Development,
Ltd.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 896-01.
By Councilmen Gordon, Melena and Patmon (by departmental request)
An emergency ordinance to transfer the sum of one million eight hundred thousand dollars ($1,800,000) from
Other Funds within the General Fund to various divisions of the Departments of Public Health and Community
Development.
Approved by Directors of Public Health, Community Development, Finance, Law; Relieved of Committees on
Public Health, Community and Economic Development; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, beginning in line 2, and in Section 1, beginning in line 1, strike “one million eight hundred thousand dollars ($1,800,000)” and insert in lieu thereof the following: “one million fifty thousand dollars ($1,050,000)”;
and in lines 6 and 7, strike “Departments of Public Health and” and insert in lieu thereof “Department”.
2. In Section 1, strike the schedule in its entirety and insert in lieu thereof the following:
“FROM

TO

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Division of Neighborhood Services
II. Other Expenses

$

—

$ 800,000

Division of Administrative Services
II. Other Expenses

$

—

$

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

$

—

$ 875,000

Division of Environment
I. Personnel and Related Expenses
II. Other Expenses

$
$

—
—

$ 160,000
$
15,000

TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

$

—

$ 175,000

Transfers to Other Funds
II. Other Expenses

$1,050,000

$

—

$1,050,000

$

—

$1,050,000

$1,050,000”

75,000

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

TOTAL GENERAL FUND

Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas 15. Nays 0. Read third time in full. Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones, White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member of Council before final passage.

1339

38
Ord. No. 898-01.
By Councilman Jackson (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing actions for the redevelopment of
Longwood
Apartments,
including
determining the methods of, and
authorizing the Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
Public Utilities and other City officials, as appropriate, to enter into,
contracts for the construction of
public improvements, amenities and
related
matters;
authorizing
the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies to convey and accept interests
in real property; authorizing the disposition of certain City owned land;
authorizing the termination of certain restrictive covenants and other
encumbrances
on
the
site;
and
authorizing and approving related
matters.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
Parks, Recreation and Properties, Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development,
Public Service, Public Parks, Property and Recreation, Public Utilities,
Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In Section 5, line 2, after “Nos.”
insert “10 SF 168”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 904-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Cintron,
Rybka, O’Malley and Patmon (by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making various public improvements as authorized by the Year XXVII Community Development Block Grant, and
authorizing the Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
and Public Utilities to enter into
contract for the making of the various public improvements.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Public Service,
Parks, Recreation and Properties,
Public Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on Community and Economic Development,
Public
Service,
Public
Parks, Property and Recreation, Public Utilities, Finance; when amended
as follows:
1. In Section 19, line 3, and in Section 20, line 3, after “curbing”, insert
“sidewalks, curb ramps.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 906-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts

The City Record
with Cleveland Housing Network, or
its designee, to provide development
loan assistance in the form of a
Community
Development
Block
Grant float loan for the purchase,
rehabilitation or construction of low
income rental housing.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 907-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1876-2000,
passed November 27, 2000, relating
to contract with various non-profit
agencies for the implementation of
homeless assistance activities and
with Cuyahoga County for the operation of the Cleveland/Cuyahoga
County Office of Homeless Services.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 908-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with potential homeowners under
the Your Home Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 909-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a contract
with Cleveland Housing Network, or
its designee, for the acquisition,
rehabilitation, or construction of low
income housing units.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 911-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to operate the Storefront
Renovation
Program
with
Community
Development
Block
Grant funds.

1340

June 20, 2001
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 912-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with various non-profit development
corporations
to
provide
grants
to
small,
neighborhoodbased street clubs, block clubs and
other
community
improvement
groups to implement the Cityworks
Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 913-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with various agencies to provide
housing,
commercial,
industrial
and real estate development activities.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 914-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Rybka
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development and other Directors of
City Departments to enter into contracts with various agencies to provide social service programs, authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into Memoranda of Understanding with the
various Directors of City Departments, and authorizing the Director
of Parks, Recreation and Properties
to enter into lease agreements with
various non-profit agencies to provide facilities for recreation activities.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Parks, Recreation and Properties, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Public Parks, Property and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.

June 20, 2001
Ord. No. 918-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to employ one or
more consultants or one or more
firms of consultants to provide professional services for pre-employment
background
and
criminal
checks for the Department of Personnel and Human Resources.
Approved by Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 921-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to accept allocations of grants from the State of
Ohio Department of Jobs and Family Services, under the Workforce
Investment Act, Title I; to appropriate funds to provide for administration of the Workforce Investment
Act Programs by the Department of
Personnel and Human Resources;
and to enter into contract with various entities necessary to implement
the program.
Approved by Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 3, line 1, after “That”
insert the following: “, subject to the
conditions set forth in Section 4,”
and in Section 3, line 3, after “entities” insert the following: “, including, but not limited to, the United
Labor Agency,”.
2. Insert new Sections 4, 5 and 6:
“Section 4. That prior to entering
into any of the contracts authorized
in Section 3 of this Ordinance, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources shall provide the Chairman of the Employment, Affirmative Action, and Training Committee
with a written report detailing the
services provided during the Previous Workforce Investment Act Program Year and a written report
describing the services to be provided in the current Workforce
Investment Act Program Year (July
1, 2001 - June 30, 2003). Each report,
at a minimum, shall include information on the amount of grant dollars received by or to be received by
each entity, the expenditure/proposed expenditure of such grant dollars, the type of services provided or
to be provided and the number of
persons served or the estimated
number of persons to be served.
Section 5. That, upon receipt of
the grant funds specified in Section
1 of this Ordinance and upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in
Section 4 of this Ordinance, the
Director of Personnel and Human
Resources shall enter into a contract
with the United Labor Agency.
Section 6. That the Director of
Personnel and Human Resources
shall promote the Workforce Investment Act Program by working with
members of City Council to inform
residents of the services provided

The City Record
under the Workforce Investment
Act. The Director of Personnel and
Human Resources may also purchase newspaper and radio advertising in order to promote the Workforce Investment Act services. When
purchasing newspaper and radio
advertising, the Director of Personnel and Human Resources shall utilize newspaper and radio advertising that will target diverse population groups within the City.”
3. Renumber existing “Section 4”
to new “Section 7” and existing “Section 5” to new “Section 8”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 927-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement with the Board of Education of the Cleveland School District to terminate Lease Agreement
No. 30237.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property
and Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 929-01.
By Councilman Sweeney (by request)
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to Ray Fogg Building
Methods, Inc. to encroach into the
right-of-way of Industrial Parkway
S.W. to allow for the construction,
use and maintenance of the Oatey
Company’s
expanded
distribution
complex center.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service,
City Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1003-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain airport
maintenance
vehicles
and
equipment, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.

1341

39
Ord. No. 1004-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 1268-97,
passed April 6, 1998, relating to the
public improvement of installing a
redundant
electrical
source
and
associated appurtenances, and professional
services
necessary
to
design the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1005-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
amend Contract No. 53694 with Parsons Infrastructure and Technology,
Inc. for professional management
services relating to the expansion of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 1, at the end, insert
the following new sentence:
“Not
later than September 2002, the Director of Port Control shall report to
the Aviation and Transportation
Committee on the work that has
been performed by Parsons Infrastructure
and
Technology,
Inc.
under this contract, the cost of the
services provided, and a description
of work still in progress or still to
be completed under the contract.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1006-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to maintain and repair air
conditioning systems, for the various divisions of the Department of
Port Control, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1007-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the procurement by requirement
contract of the rental of snow
removal equipment with operators
and other heavy-duty equipment
with operators necessary to comply
with FAA-mandated requirements,
for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, for a period
not to exceed two years.

40
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1008-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more consultants or
one or more firms of consultants to
provide professional services necessary to conduct annual audits of
select vendors and concessionaires
for Fiscal Year 2001 for the various
divisions of the Department of Port
Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1012-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to replace, repair and/or
restore existing roofing systems, for
the Division of Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, Department of
Port Control, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1014-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to repair and maintain automatic doors, for the Divisions of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport and Burke Lakefront Airport, Department of Port Control, for
a period not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1015-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more medical consultants or one or more firms of medical consultants to provide professional
services
to
furnish
and
administer hepatitis vaccinations,
for the Department of Port Control.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control,
Public
Health,
Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Public Health, Finance; when
amended as follows:

The City Record
1. In Section 2, line 1, after “That”
and before “the cost” insert: “the
term of said contract shall not
exceed one year and”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1016-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to maintain plumbing systems, for the Divisions of Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport and
Burke Lakefront Airport, Department of Port Control, for a period
not to exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1017-01.
By Mayor White and Councilman
Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to employ one or
more professional consultants to
provide transition services.
Approved by Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 2, line 2, after “shall”
insert “not exceed $250,000 and
shall”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1018-01.
By Mayor White and Councilman
Polensek.
An
emergency
ordinance
to
change the name of the Woodland
Recreation Center to the Kenneth L.
Johnson Recreation Center.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property,
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1019-01.
By Mayor White and Councilman
Polensek.
An
emergency
ordinance
to
change the name of Eliot Park to
Odelia V. Robinson Park.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,

1342

June 20, 2001
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property,
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1021-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Patmon and Melena (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with the Salvation Army for economic assistance to finance the
redevelopment of a facility at 2100
Lakeside Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1022-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the City Planning Commission to apply for and
accept a grant from the George
Gund Foundation and the Cleveland
Foundation to establish a Civic
Vision 2010 Citywide Plan web site
as part of a City of Cleveland web
site; and authorizing a direct contract with Environmental Systems
Research Systems, Inc. for the purchase of software necessary to
implement the web site.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning
Commission,
Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City Planning, Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In Section 2, at the end, insert
the following new sentence: “The
Director of the City Planning Commission shall make a presentation
to the City Planning Committee
prior to the creation of the web site
contemplated by this ordinance.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1023-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Rybka
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a property adoption agreement with the
Barkwill Park Committee for the
landscaping and maintenance of
property located at Barkwill Park.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law;
Passage
recommended
by
Committees on Public Parks, Property, and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.

June 20, 2001
Ord. No. 1025-01.
By Councilmen Cintron, Melena
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Neighborhood
Development Investment Fund contract with 3500 Group, Ltd. to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition and renovation of a building
at 3500 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Approved
by
Directors
of
Economic
Development,
Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development, Finance, Law.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1026-01.
By Councilman Coats.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contract
with the Youth Developmental Basketball League to conduct a Citywide athletic program.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property,
and Recreation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1027-01.
By Councilmen Gordon, Melena
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Community
Development and/or Public Health
to enter into contracts with various
agencies to provide AIDS related
services.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health,
Community
Development,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Health,
Community and Economic Development, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In Section 1, at the end, insert
the following new sentence: “Any
agency that receives funds under
this program shall be required to
comply with the evaluation services
provided by Cleveland State University’s School of Social Work.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1028-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating funds obtained from regulation of retail food establishments
and food service operations to a special revenue subfund.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Health, Finance.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1029-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
accept a grant from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for
financial assistance for the operation of the Division of Environment;
and authorizing said Director to
enter into contracts for the purchase
of service and equipment necessary
to operate the Division of Environment.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Health, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. Insert a new Section 4 to read
as follows:
“Section 4. That the Director of
Public Health shall consult with the
Ohio
Environmental
Protection
Agency in order to develop a plan
that will assist the City in enforcing environmental protection laws
in a manner that is consistent with
Ohio
Environmental
Protection
Agency regulations and policies.”.
2. Insert a new Section 5 to read
as follows:
“Section 5.
That the Director of
Public Health shall provide a written progress report to the Chairperson of the Public Health Committee
and the Chairperson of the Finance
Committee within six months of the
passage of this ordinance.
Such
report shall indicate any corrective
actions taken by the Department of
Public Health in order to facilitate
compliance with Ohio Environmental Protection Agency regulations
and policies.”.
3. Insert a new Section 6 to read
as follows:
“Section 6.
That the Director of
Public Health shall provide quarterly
environmental
enforcement
reports to each member of Council.”.
4. Renumber existing “Section 4”
to new “Section 7”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1030-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
enter into contracts with various
agencies to provide AIDS-related
services.
Approved by Directors of Public
Health, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Health, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. Insert a new Section 3 to read
as follows:
“Section 3. That each agency
entering into contract with the City
pursuant to this Ordinance shall be
required to comply with the evaluation services provided by Cleveland
State University’s School of Social
Work.”.

1343

41
2. Renumber existing “Section 3”
to new “Section 4”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1032-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Cintron
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating a portion of Central Avenue;
authorizing the Director of Public
Service to enter into contract for the
making of such improvement; and
authorizing said director to employ
one or more professional consultants
to design the improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Service, Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. Insert new Section 5 to read as
follows:
“Section 5. That the rehabilitation
of East 79th Street between Hough
Avenue and Chester Avenue shall
not include street, sidewalk, curb,
and gutter improvements.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1033-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a Neighborhood
Development Investment Fund contract with KINBESS LLC to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance activities, including but not limited to, land assembly and
acquisition, demolition,
investigation,
remediation
and
improvement of an approximately
25-acre parcel at the intersection of
Preble Avenue and East 80th Street
in Cleveland, Ohio.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development, City Planning Commission, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic Development, City
Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1034-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies to sell City-owned property no longer needed for public use
located at 4310 Carnegie Avenue to
ITX
Corporation,
dba
Cleveland
Granite and Marble.

42
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, lines 6 and 7, and
in Section 2, lines 3 and 4, strike
“ITX Corporation, dba Cleveland
Granite and Marble” and insert in
lieu thereof “JKJ REALTY, LTD.”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1035-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity
contract with Stanley Jackson to
provide economic development assistance to partially finance building
renovations and site improvements
for the property located at 7210 Central Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1036-01.
By Councilman Jones.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as
part of the Land Reutilization Program and located on East 174th
Street to Amistad Development Corporation.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1038-01.
By Councilmen Lewis and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into contract with
the Cuyahoga County Public Defender Commission for legal services
necessary
to
defend
indigents
charged with violation of ordinances
of the City of Cleveland, provided
such violation may result in incarceration, for the Cleveland Municipal Court, for a period of six
months, with two six month options
to renew.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees
on
Legislation,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. Insert a new Section 2 to read
as follows:

The City Record
“Section 2. That two percent (2%)
of any payment received by the City
and/or Cleveland Municipal Court
from the financing of defense counsel for indigent persons shall be utilized by participants in a court
exchange program between Cleveland Municipal Court and the Cleveland Municipal School District.”.
2. Renumber existing “Section 2”
to new “Section 3”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1039-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 11 of Ordinance No.
867-2000, passed June 19, 2000, relating to Tax Increment Financing
Agreements with various property
owners to provide for service payments for the purpose of repayment
of the revenue bonds to be issued
for the purpose of assisting with the
financing of public improvements on
Superior Avenue.
Approved by Directors of Economic
Development,
Finance,
City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In Section line 11, strike “102-25023” and insert in lieu “102-15-023”
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1040-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Lewis and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Economic
Development and Personnel and
Human Resources to apply for and
accept a grant from the U.S. Department of Labor for the 2001 Youth
Opportunity Program; and to enter
into contract with Vocational Guidance Services, Inc. to continue to
develop, operate and implement the
program.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Personnel and
Human Resources, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, Legislation, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 7-11 and
insert the following: “Youth Opportunity Program.”.
2. Strike Section 3 in its entirely
and insert in lieu thereof the following:
“Section 3. That the Directors of
Economic Development and Personnel and Human Resources shall provide the Chairperson of the Finance
Committee, the Chairperson of the
Community and Economic Develop-

1344

June 20, 2001
ment Committee, and the Chairperson of the Legislation Committee
with a report evaluating the services provided by the Youth Opportunity Program.”.
3. Insert a new Section 4 to read
as follows:
“Section 4. That the Legislation
Committee may conduct a review of
the Youth Opportunity Program in
July or August of 2001.”.
4. Renumber existing “Section 4”
to new “Section 5”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1041-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
the Cleveland Neighborhood Development Corporation to continue the
administration
of
the
Cleveland
Industrial Retention Initiative.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1042-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to apply for and accept a
grant from the U.S. Department of
Labor for the 2001 School-to-Work
Program; and to enter into contract
with the Cleveland Municipal School
District to continue to implement
the program.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1043-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a grant agreement with Greater Cleveland Media
Development Corporation to administer a program for marketing the
City of Cleveland as a production
venue for film, television and commercials.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.

June 20, 2001
Ord. No. 1044-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with various housing development
entities, or their designees, to implement the Housing Trust Fund Program, for costs associated with various housing activities.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1053-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the Jesse Avenue
sewer, and authorizing the Director
of Public Utilities to enter into contract
for
the
making
of
such
improvement.
Approved by Directors of Public
Utilities, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Utilities, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1054-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Olivet Avenue to
Greater
Cleveland
Habitat
for
Humanity, Inc.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1055-01.
By
Councilman
Patmon
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 43 of Ordinance No. 22742000, passed March 5, 2001, as
amended by Ordinance No. 434-2000,
passed March 20, 2000, and 1070-2000,
passed June 19, 2000, relating to
compensation for various classifications.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance; when amended as
follows:
1. In the title, strike lines 3, 4, 5
and 6 in their entirety and insert in
lieu thereof the following: “434-2000,
passed March 20, 2000, as amended
by Ordinance Nos. 1070-2000, passed
June 19, 2000 and 2274-2000, passed
March 5, 2001, relating”.
2. In Section 1, strike lines 1, 2
and 3 in their entirety and insert in
lieu thereof the following:
“Section 1. That Section 43 of
Ordinance
No.
434-2000,
passed
March 20, 2000, as amended by Ordi-

The City Record

43

nance Nos. 1070-2000, passed June
19, 2000 and 2274-2000, passed March
5, 2001, is”.
3. In Section 2, strike lines 2 and
3 in their entirety and insert in lieu
thereof
the
following:
“434-2000,
passed March 20, 2000, as amended
by Ordinance Nos. 1070-2000, passed
June 19, 2000 and 2274-2000, passed
March 5, 2001.”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 1060-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of paint and painting equipment, for the various divisions of
City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.

Ord. No. 1056-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to service and maintain printers and for the purchase of desktop
computer printers, for the various
divisions of City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.

Ord. No. 1061-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of keys, locks, hardware
and supplies, including repair service, for the various divisions of
City government, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.

Ord. No. 1057-01.
By
Councilman
Patmon
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to pay
as Moral Claims the sums herein set
forth opposite the names of the
claimants.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.

Ord. No. 1062-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of lamps, for the various
divisions of City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.

Ord. No. 1058-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of Group A paper products
necessary for janitorial services, for
the various divisions of City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1059-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of express mail service, for
the various divisions of City government.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.

1345

Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.

Ord. No. 1065-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Personnel and
Human Resources to enter into contract amendments to extend until
August 31, 2001 the existing contracts for the provision of medical,
life and group dental insurance coverage for City of Cleveland employees.
Approved by Directors of Personnel and Human Resources, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1066-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of manufacturing, printing,
encoding, sorting, and mailing of
income tax statements and returns,
for the Division of Taxation, Depart-

44
ment of Finance, for a period of one
year with two one-year options to
renew.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1068-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance to enter
into contract with Peoplesoft USA,
Inc. for maintenance and technical
support for Peoplesoft software modules, for the Division of Financial
Reporting and Control, Department
of Finance, for a period of one year
with two one-year options to renew.
Approved by Directors of Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committee on Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1069-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to extend
the retirement dates of Officer Emil
Cielec, Lieutenant Michael O’Malley,
Lieutenant Edward Lentz and Officer Thomas Smith, for a one year
period for the Division of Police,
Department of Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1070-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety,
for
the
EMS/Fire
Training
Grant, and authorizing the Director
of Public Safety to enter into
requirement contract for the purchase of equipment and training
necessary to implement the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1071-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Bureau of Justice Assistance, for
the Bulletproof Vest Partnership, and
authorizing the Director of Public
Safety to enter into requirement contract for the purchase of equipment
necessary to implement the grant.

The City Record
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1072-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Department of Justice, Office of
Community Oriented Policing Services, for the COPS Universal Hiring
Program.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1073-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for the 2001 FEMA
Assistance
to
Firefighters,
and
authorizing the Director of Public
Safety to enter into requirement contract for the purchase of equipment
and training necessary to implement
the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1074-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Public Safety, for the EMS Training Grant, and
authorizing the Director of Public
Safety to enter into requirement contract for the purchase of equipment
and training necessary to implement
the grant.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1076-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of
labor and materials necessary for
replacing carpeting in various areas
of Cleveland City Hall, for the
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Com-

1346

June 20, 2001
mittees on Public Parks, Property,
and
Recreation,
Finance;
when
amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 5, and in Section 1, line 6, strike “of Cleveland
City Hall” and insert in lieu thereof “of City facilities, including but
not limited to the offices of Cleveland City Council,”.
2. In Section 2, line 2, strike “No.”
and insert in lieu thereof “Nos. 11
SF 006 and”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1077-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 6, of Ordinance No. 79-01,
passed May 21, 2001, relating to
applying for and accepting a grant
from the State of Ohio, for projects
authorized under the State Capital
Appropriation Grant; and authorizing contracts necessary to implement those improvements.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property,
and Recreation, Finance.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1078-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to plant trees at various locations throughout the City of Cleveland on City-owned properties, for
the Division of Park Maintenance
and
Properties,
Department
of
Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Finance,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Parks, Property,
and Recreation, Finance.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1080-01.
By Councilmen Westbrook, Melena
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
A-1 Affordable Plumbing, Inc. to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the acquisition and renovation of real property, including site improvements,

June 20, 2001
located at 10321 Jasper Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Approved by Directors of Economic Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 1081-01.
By Councilmen White, Lewis and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 665.02, 665.04, 665.051, 665.09,
and 665.99 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 162-A-2000,
passed December 4, 2000; and to
repeal Sections 665.11, 665.16 and
665.17, relating to unlawful discriminatory conduct.
Approved by Directors of Community Relations Board, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training, Legislation,
Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1082-01.
By Councilmen White and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Community
Relations Board to apply for and
accept a grant from the State of
Ohio, Office of Criminal Justice Service for the 2001 Teen Court Program; and to enter into contract
with the YMCA of Greater Cleveland
to implement the Program.
Approved by Directors of Community Relations Board, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1118-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants for the collection, sampling and analysis of soils, environmental modelling, and other related
services.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1119-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more certified erosion
and sediment control specialists to

The City Record
provide professional services necessary to perform related services for
construction at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1122-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of remediating
sources of contamination to prevent
absorption
of
contaminants
into
soil, surface water and groundwater, and authorizing the Director of
Port Control to enter into contract
for the making of such improvement.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 4 and in Section 1, line 3, after “sources” and
before
“of
contamination”
insert
“and removal”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

45
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1126-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of remediating soil, for the
Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control, for a period not to exceed
three years.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title line 3 and in Section 1, line 5, after “remediating”
and before “soil” insert “and testing”.
2. In Section 2, line one, after
“shall”,
insert
“not
exceed
$7,347,500.00 and shall”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 1123-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of the collection, sampling,
transportation
and
disposal
of
ground water encountered during
construction, for the Division of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, Department of Port Control,
for a period not to exceed three
years.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation
and
Transportation,
Finance;
when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 5, and in Section 1, line 6, after “disposal of” and
before “ground water” insert “surface and”.
Amendment agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.

Ord. No. 1135-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Melena and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 4 of Ordinance No. 925-98,
passed June 15, 1998, relating to the
Directors of Community Development and/or Economic Development
filing all papers and executing all
documents necessary to apply for
and accept a loan from the United
States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (“HUD”) Section
108 Loan Program (“108 Loan”), to
enter into contract with HUD for the
108 Loan and to pledge any and all
collateral necessary to secure repayment thereof under the 108 Loan
Agreement including, without limitation,
Community
Development
Block Grant funds; and to receive
the funds and appropriate the funds
for the purposes of providing economic development assistance to
partially finance the rehabilitation
and redevelopment of the Colonial
and Euclid Arcades consistent with
HUD 108 Loan requirements.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.

Ord. No. 1125-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more consultants to
provide professional services necessary for the design or modification
of stormwater pollution prevention
plans.
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Aviation and Transportation, Finance.

Ord. No. 1138-01.
By Councilmen Lewis, Rybka, Cintron, Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of improving
League Park, and authorizing the
Directors of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, Public Service and/or
Economic Development to enter into
contract for the making of such
improvement.

1347

46
Approved by Directors of Parks,
Recreation and Properties, Public
Service, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Parks, Property, and Recreation, Public Service, Community and Economic Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1139-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating funds designated for administrative processing costs for Neighborhood Equity Fund projects.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1163-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of prisoner meals, for the
Division of Police, Department of
Public Safety.
Approved by Directors of Public
Safety, Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public
Safety, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1165-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Broadway and Morgana Avenues to The Boys and Girls
Club of Cleveland.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Ord. No. 1168-01.
By Councilmen White, Polensek
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of the Community
Relations Board to apply for and
accept a grant from the Cleveland
Foundation for the 20th Anniversary
Police/Community
Relations
District Committees.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, Finance, Law;
Passage recommended by Committees on Community and Economic
Development, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.

The City Record
SECOND READING
ORDINANCES PASSED
Ord. No. 452-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Dolan,
Lewis and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An ordinance to amend Section
350.10 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as amended
by Ordinance No. 3076-A-89, passed
December 10, 1990, relating to billboards; to enact new Section 341.021
of said codified ordinances relating
to airport and lakefront public land
protective districts; and to change
the use, area and height districts of
lands east of West 11 Street to limited access line of State Route 176
(Map Change No 2029, Sheet No 6).
Approved by Directors of Port
Control, City Planning Commission,
Finance, Law; Passage recommended by Committees on City Planning,
Aviation and Transportation, Legislation, Finance; when amended as follows:
1. In the title, line 2; in Section 1,
line 1; and in Section 2, line 1, strike
“Section” and insert in lieu thereof
“Sections 350.04 and”.
2. In Section 1, line 3 and in Section 2, line 3, strike “is” and insert
in lieu thereof “are”.
3. In Section 1, after line 4 and
before the text of Section 350.10,
insert the following:
“Section 350.04 Application for Permits
Application for permits to erect,
structurally alter, move or display a
sign shall be made to the Division
of Building and Housing by the
owner (or owner’s agent) of the
property for which a sign is proposed, on forms provided by the
City, in accordance with the following regulations:
(a) Exemptions from Permit Re quirement. City permits shall be
required for all permanent and temporary signs except as listed below:
(1) Normal maintenance, repainting or change of message or sign
face which does not alter the size,
placement or structure of a sign.
(2) Nameplates and information
signs for residential uses.
(3)
Temporary
window
signs
mounted on the inside window surface.
(4) Temporary real estate and
development signs not exceeding
forty-eight (48) square feet in area.
(5) Political signs not exceeding
forty-eight (48) square feet in area.
(6) Garage sale and real estate
open house signs as regulated in
division (c) of Section 350.13.
(b) Applicability. Regardless of
exemptions from the requirement
for a permit, all permanent and temporary signs shall be subject to
applicable regulations of this Code
except for signs listed in Section
350.21.
(c)
Submission
Requirements.
With the exception of any requirements determined to be inapplicable
in a particular instance by the Commissioner of Building and Housing,
the applicant shall submit accurately-scaled elevation drawings and a
site plan at a minimum scale of 1"50', indicating, in narrative or plan
form, the following information:
(1) all sign dimensions and sign
height;
(2) placement of signs in relation
to building edges, roof lines, tenant
party walls, windows, doors and
other building features as well as in
relation to all lot lines, street lines,
sidewalks and drives;

1348

June 20, 2001
(3) construction materials for the
signs and sign structure, as well as
method of attachment; and
(4) type, intensity, placement and
shielding of illumination.
(d) Billboards. For billboard applications requiring approval by the
State of Ohio, no permit shall be
issued by the City prior to submission
by
the
applicant
of
the
approved State permit. In addition,
an application for a billboard shall
indicate all existing billboards located within a distance of 1000 feet or,
for a billboard to be placed along a
freeway,
all
existing
billboards
within a distance of 2000 feet. Any
application for placement of a billboard along a freeway shall include
the name, address and phone number of the company that owns the
billboard, including the owners of
said company, the name of the company that owns the land where the
billboard is located and the name
and phone number of a contact person responsible for maintenance of
the sign and its site. This information shall be updated and sent to the
Clerk of Council by January 31 and
July 31 of every year.
(e) Temporary Signs. Where required, a permit for a temporary
sign shall be issued for a period not
exceeding six (6) months unless
another display period is specified
in Section 350.12 or in other applicable sections of the Codified Ordinances. Permits for real estate and
development signs shall be issued
for a period not exceeding one (1)
year but may be renewed while construction or marketing is pursued
diligently. Development signs shall
be removed immediately upon placement of a permanent identification
sign.”.
4.
In
Section
1,
at
Section
350.10(a), at the end, add the following: “No billboards shall be permitted on the east side of State
Route 176 (the Jennings Freeway)
and only one billboard shall be permitted on the west side of State
Route 176 (the Jennings Freeway).”.
5. Insert new Section 8 to read as
follows:
“Section 8. That the Clerk of Council shall create a legislative file,
File No. 452-01-A, to contain the various documents that were presented
to this Council during the consideration of this legislation, which shall
include, without limitation, each of
the following: the proposed settlement agreement between the City of
Cleveland and Eller Media, two summaries of this legislation, the document labeled “Eller Media Company
Billboard Upgrades in the City of
Cleveland”, the map and listing of
“Gateway Locations” relating to billboards that will be removed under
the proposed settlement agreement,
and the map showing the approximate location of the thirteen billboard sites that will be available
along freeways under the regulations of this ordinance. The City
Planning Commission shall maintain a copy of this map in its offices
and the map shall be updated to
reflect the locations of installed billboards along freeways and the
remaining available sites.”.
6. Renumber existing Section 8 to
new “Section 9”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
14. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 14. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
O’Malley, White and Willis.

June 20, 2001
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
Ord. No. 748-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An
ordinance
to
establish
a
Planned Unit Development (PUD)
Overlay District and approve the
corresponding Planned Unit Development project on properties located
west of East 40 Street to approximately East 34 Street between Community College Avenue, S.E. and
Woodland
Avenue,
S.E.
and
to
change the Area District of said
lands (Map Change No. 2030, Sheet
No. 5)
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance; when
amended as follows:
1. In Section 3, at the end, strike
the period and insert in lieu thereof the following: “is hereby approved.”.
2. Insert new Section 5 to read as
follows:
“Section 5. That approval of the
PUD site plan shall expire if construction of the development has
not begun within two (2) years of
the effective date of this ordinance
or if the project has not been completed within five (5) years of such
date.”.
3. Renumber existing Sections 5
and 6 to new “Section 6” and “Section 7”.
Amendments agreed to.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Passed. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White and Willis.
In compliance with Section 33 of
the Charter, a copy of the legislation was furnished to each member
of Council before final passage.
SECOND READING EMERGENCY
RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
Res. No. 940-01.
By Councilmen Cintron, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution declaring the necessity and intention to
appropriate property for public use
for a mixed-use development including residential, retail and accessory
parking uses in connection with the
West 25th-Lorain Community Development Plan.
Approved by Directors of Community Development, City Planning
Commission, Finance, Law; Passage
recommended
by
Committees
on
Community and Economic Development, City Planning, Finance.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Res. No. 941-01.
By Councilman Sweeney (by request).
An emergency resolution declaring
the intention to vacate a portion of
Industrial Parkway S.W.
Approved by Directors of Public
Service, City Planning Commission,
Law; Passage recommended by Committees on Public Service, City Planning.

The City Record
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
Res. No. 1169-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency resolution declaring the intention to vacate a portion
of Engel Ct., SE; Woolen Ct., SE;
and Recreation Ct., SE.
Approved by Directors of City
Planning Commission, Law; Passage
recommended by Committee on City
Planning.
The rules were suspended. Yeas
15. Nays 0. Read third time in full.
Adopted. Yeas 15. Nays 0.
Not answering Roll Call: Council
Members Cimperman, Dolan, Jones,
White, Willis.
MOTION
By Council Member Britt and seconded by Council Member Melena
and unanimously carried that the
absence of Council Member Jay
Westbrook be and is hereby authorized.
MOTION
The Council adjourned at 1:30 p.m.
to meet on Wednesday, July 18, 2001
in the Council Chambers.

Clerk of Council

THE CALENDAR
The following measures will be on
their final passage at the next meeting:
NONE

BOARD OF CONTROL
June 13, 2001
The regular meeting of the Board
of Control convened in the Mayor’s
office on Wednesday, June 13, 2001,
at 11:00 a.m. with Director Carter
presiding.
Present: Directors Carter, Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Absent: Mayor White.
Others: Myrna Branche, Commissioner,
Purchases
and
Supplies.
Lucille Ambroz, Director, Office of
Equal Opportunity.
On motion, the following resolutions were adopted.
Resolution No. 384-01.
By Director Clark.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the
conditional bid of Central Business
Equipment d.b.a. Central Business
Group, for an estimated quantity of
High Density Filing System (items
A, D and E) except for such terms
and conditions as are not acceptable

1349

47
to the Director of Law and the
Director of Finance, for the Division
of Accounts, Department of Finance,
for the period of one (1) year beginning with the date of execution of
a contract received on March 21,
2001, pursuant to the authority of
Ordinance
No.
1196-2000,
passed
August 7th, 2000, which on the basis
of the estimated quantity would
amount to One Hundred Ninety-One
Thousand Seven Hundred and 88/100
Dollars, ($191,700.88), (Net 30 Days),
is hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest and best bid, and the
Director
of
Finance
is
hereby
requested to enter into a requirement contract for such goods and/or
services, which shall provide for the
immediate purchase as the initial
amount of such contract of the following:
Requisition No. 30314
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Ten
Thousand
and
00/100
Dollars
($10,000.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 385-01.
By Director Clark.
Resolved by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland, that all
bids received on March 21, 2001 for
High Density Filing System (Group
B and C) for the Division of
Accounts, Department of Finance,
pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 1196-2000, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland on
August 7, 2000, be and the same are
hereby rejected.
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 386-01.
By Director Clark.
Resolved, by the Board of Control
of the City of Cleveland that the bid
of Bonnie Speed Delivery, Inc. for an
estimated quantity of Messenger Services (all items) for the various divisions of City Government, Department of Finance, for the period of
one (1) year beginning with the date
of execution of a contract received on
May 17, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 654-01, passed
May 21, 2001, which on the basis of
the estimated quantity would amount
to Thirty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars, ($30,000.00), (Net 7 Days), is
hereby affirmed and approved as the
lowest and best bid, and the Director
of Finance is hereby requested to
enter into a requirement contract for
such goods and/or services, which
shall provide for the immediate purchase as the initial amount of such
contract of the following:

The City Record

48
Requisition No. 12939 — Division of
Civil Service
which shall be certified against
such contract in the sum of Two
Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100
Dollars ($2,500.00).
Said requirement contract shall
further provide that the Contractor
shall furnish the remainder of the
City’s requirements^ for such goods
and/or services, whether more or
less than said estimated quantity, as
may be ordered under subsequent
requisitions
separately
certified
against said contract.
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 387-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
the employment of the following
subcontractors by Creative Works,
Inc., under the contract for production
of
consumer
information
brochures, for the Division of Water,
Department
of
Public
Utilities,
authorized by Ordinance No. 881-99,
passed June 7, 1999, and Board of
Control Resolution No. 140-01, adopted
March
14,
2001,
is
hereby
approved:

Resolution No. 389-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
Board of Control Resolution No. 32001, adopted May 10, 2001, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1415-99,
passed
October
4,
1999,
approving the bid of Utilicon Corporation as lowest and best for
repair of water mains and appurtenances
(Area
D)
including
allowances (Items 1D-55D) for the
Division of Water, Department of
Public Utilities, is hereby amended
by deleting, “Requisition No. 33949”,
and replacing it with; “Requisition
No. 34017”.
Be it further resolved that all
other provisions of said Resolution
No. 320-01 not expressly amended
hereby shall remain unchanged and
in full force and effect.
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.

Libby Construction
Furnish all labor and
equipment for repair and
replacement of fire
hydrants

Resolution No. 390-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Whereas, Molly McBride wishes to
utilize the lobby and banquet room
at Burke Lakefront Airport (the
“Airport”) for a wedding reception
(the “Event”) to be held October 13,
2001; and
Whereas, the City is willing to
grant Molly McBride the privilege,
permit and license to conduct the
Event at the Airport; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.04 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of the
Department of Port Control is hereby authorized to enter into an agreement (the “Agreement”) granting
Molly McBride the privilege, permit
and license to conduct the Event in
the lobby and banquet room at
Burke Lakefront Airport from 3:00
p.m. to 12:00 midnight on October 13,
2001, and to use and occupy the
rooms for such period of time before
the Event as necessary for preparation. Molly McBride shall pay the
City a $525.00 fee for the Event,
shall reimburse the City for the cost
of two (2) City employees to perform custodial and building maintenance work related to the conduct
of the Event, shall arrange for the
conduct of the Event and such other
activities approved as appropriate
and incidental to the Event, and
shall be responsible at its expense
for providing traffic control, security and clean up.
Be it further resolved that the
Agreement authorized hereby shall
be prepared by the Director of Law
and shall contain such other provisions as the Director deems necessary to benefit and protect the public interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.

Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.

Resolution No. 391-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Board of Control Resolution No. 736-00, adopted October 25,
2000, pursuant to Ordinance No. 1577-

Subcontractor
Work
Don Snyder Photography
Custom Photography
Phil Vedda & Sons, Inc.
Print Production
Andrew Johns, Inc.
Custom Graphics &
Website Conversion
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 388-01.
By Director Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
employment of the following subcontractor by LJI Construction Company, Inc., contractor employed by
contract to provide labor and materials
to
repair
or
replace
fire
hydrants (all items), for the Division of Water, Department of Public
Utilities, under City Contract No.
57830, authorized by Ordinance No.
2100-2000, passed January 29, 2001
and Board of Control Resolution No.
308-01, adopted May 10, 2001 is hereby approved.
Subcontractor
Work

1350

June 20, 2001
2000 passed October 18, 2000, approving North Bay Construction, Inc., for
the public improvement of the Centralized Deicing Facility, Phase 1A,
for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port Control, the employment of the following subcontractor
for
the
above-mentioned
public
improvement
project
is
hereby
approved:
SUBCONTRACTORS
DESCRIPTION
Mohawk Rebar Services
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 392-01.
By Director Sheperd.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Grinnell Fire Protection, items 1-7 and 13, for the public improvement of the security
upgrade for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control, received
on March 14, 2001, pursuant to the
authority of Ordinance No. 1269-97,
passed May 18, 1998, upon a unit
basis for the improvement in the
aggregate amount of Three Hundred Sixty Seven Thousand Eighty
Dollars
($367,080.00),
is
hereby
affirmed and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Director
of Port Control is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for said
improvement with said bidder.
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 393-01.
By Director Ricchiuto.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of Perk Company, Inc.,
for the public improvement of State
Road Rehabilitation, base bid and
Alternates 1, 2, and 3, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service,
received on May 31, 2001, pursuant
to the authority of Ordinance No.
1284-99 and 730-2000, passed July 14,
1999 and June 12, 2000, respectively,
upon a unit basis, for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
Four Million, Three Hundred Twenty-One
Thousand,
Seventy
and
80/100
Dollars
($4,321,070.80),
is
hereby affirmed and approved as
the lowest responsible bid; and the
Director of Public Service is hereby
authorized to enter into contract for
said improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by Perk Company, Inc.
for
the
aforementioned
public
improvement is hereby approved:
McTech Corp., d.b.a. Tech Ready Mix
5000 Crayton Avenue
P.O. Box 5270
Cleveland, Ohio 44101
MBE 16%
Cuyahoga Supply & Tool, Inc.
5340 Perkins Road
Cleveland, Ohio 44146
FBE 1%

June 20, 2001
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors
Miller,
Hudecek,
Patterson,
Warren and Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White.
Resolution No. 394-01.
By Director Miller.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that pursuant to Ordinance No. 17272000 passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland on May 21, 2001,
the firm of DLZ Ohio Inc., is hereby selected upon the nomination of
the Director of Parks, Recreation,
and Properties from a list of qualified
firms
available
for
such
employment and determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Parks, Recreation, and
Properties as the firm of engineers
(“Engineers”) to be employed by
contract for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of several departments of the
City in order to provide the professional design services necessary for
the Rockefeller Park Greenhouse
Entrance and Lobby Renovations.
Be it further resolved, that the
Director of Parks, Recreation, and
Properties hereby is authorized to
enter into a written contract with
DLZ Ohio, Inc. based upon its proposal dated May 19, 2000, and
amended on May 2, 2001, which contract shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall include such
additional provisions as he deems
necessary to benefit and protect the
public interest.
The fees for services to be performed under the contract authorized hereby shall not exceed Twenty Six Thousand Five Hundred and
no/100 Dollars ($26,500.00). Reimbursable expenses shall not exceed
Nine Thousand and no/100 Dollars
($9,000.00). The total compensation
to the Architect shall not exceed
Thirty Five Thousand Five Hundred
and no/100 Dollars ($35,500.00).
Be it further resolved, that the
employment of the following subconsultants by DLZ Ohio, Inc., is
hereby approved:
Prime Engineering
MBE 17%
City Blue Printing
FBE 8%
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White and Director
Patterson.
Resolution No. 395-01.
By Director Miller.
Whereas, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance No. 847-2000, passed
June 19, 2000 by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, as amended by
Ordinance No. 747-2001, passed May
21, 2001, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, is authorized
by and at the direction of the Board
of Control to sell certain City-owned
property, no longer needed for public use, described therein and located at 8245 Broadway Avenue, Permanent Parcel number 133-27-030A,
to Broadway-Booth Car Wash, LLC;
and
Whereas, said Ordinance No. 8472000, as amended by Ordinance No.
747-2001, provided that the consider-

The City Record
ation to be paid for the property
shall be at a price not less than the
fair market value as determined by
the Board of Control; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Ordinance No. 847-2000,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on June 19, 2000, as
amended by Ordinance No. 747-2001,
passed by the Council of the City of
Cleveland on May 31, 2001, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
is hereby directed to sell certain
City-owned property, no longer needed for public use, described therein
and
located
at
8245
Broadway
Avenue, Permanent Parcel Number
133-27-030A to Broadway-Booth Car
Wash, LLC. The consideration to be
paid for said property is hereby
fixed at Thirty-Four Thousand Six
Hundred Dollars ($34,600.00), which
amount is determined to be not less
than fair market value.
Be it further resolved that Board
of Control Resolution No. 238-2001,
adopted by the Board of Control of
the City of Cleveland on April 11,
2001 is hereby rescinded.
Be it further resolved that the
Mayor of the City of Cleveland is
hereby requested to execute and
deliver the official deed of the City
of Cleveland conveying said property which document shall contain
such additional terms and conditions
as the Director of Law shall deem
necessary to protect and benefit the
public interest.
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White and Director
Patterson.
Resolution No. 396-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
019-14-066 located at 12212 Emery
Avenue in Ward 19; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Robert Coleman and
Mamie L. Coleman, abutting/adjacent landowners, have proposed to
the City to purchase arid develop
said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 19 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland
that pursuant to Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized,

1351

49
when directed by the Director of
Community Development, and the
Mayor is hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on
behalf of the City of Cleveland,
with Robert Coleman and Mamie L.
Coleman for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 01914-066
located
at
12212
Emery
Avenue, in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$400.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White and Director
Patterson.
Resolution No. 397-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 004-17-132 located at 2478 Thurman Street in Ward 13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Philip Keefer and Mary A.
Keefer, abutting/adjacent landowners, have proposed to the City to purchase and develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchasers of said
parcel are neither tax delinquent
nor in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City
of
Cleveland,
with
Philip
Keefer and Mary A. Keefer for the
sale and development of Permanent
Parcel No. 004-17-132 located at 2478
Thurman Street, in accordance with
the Land Reutilization Program in
such manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the
consideration for said parcel shall
be $1.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
Fair Market value of said parcel
for uses in accordance with said
Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Direc-

50
tors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White and Director
Patterson.
Resolution No. 398-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program (“Program”) in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 5722 of the Ohio Revised
Code; and
Whereas, under said Program, the
City has acquired Permanent Parcel
No. 004-22-045 located at 782 Brayton
Avenue in Ward 13; and
Whereas, Section 183.021 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976 authorizes the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies,
when directed by the Director of
Community Development and when
certain specified conditions have
been met, to sell Land Reutilization
Program parcels to adjacent or abutting landowners; and
Whereas, Renee T. Kolecki, abutting/adjacent landowner, has proposed to the City to purchase and
develop said parcel; and
Whereas, the following conditions
exist:
1. The member of Council from
Ward 13 has consented to the proposed sale;
2. The parcel is either less than
4,800 square feet or less than 40 feet
frontage;
3. The proposed purchaser of said
parcel is neither tax delinquent nor
in violation of the Building and
Housing Code; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to Section 183.021 of Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio
1976, the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is authorized, when
directed by the Director of Community Development, and the Mayor is
hereby requested to execute an Official Deed for and on behalf of the
City of Cleveland, with Renee T.
Kolecki for the sale and development of Permanent Parcel No. 00422-045
located
at
782
Brayton
Avenue, in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$1.00, which amount is hereby determined to be not less than the Fair
Market value of said parcel for uses
in accordance with said Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White and Director
Patterson.
Resolution No. 399-01.
By Director Hudecek.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 2076-76 passed October 25, 1976,
the City is conducting a Land Reutilization Program in accordance with
the provision of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, City has acquired Permanent Parcel No. 118-23-014 under
said Land Reutilization Program; and
Whereas, Ordinance No. 1965-99
passed March 27, 2000, authorized
the sale of said parcel for a consideration established by the Board of
Control at not less than the Fair
Market Value; and

The City Record
Whereas, Lila Mills has proposed
to the City to purchase and develop
said parcel; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland that
pursuant to the authorization of
Ordinance No. 1965-99 passed March
27, 2000, by the Cleveland City Council, the Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute an official deed for and
on behalf of the City of Cleveland
with Lila Mills for the sale and
development of Permanent Parcel
No. 118-23-014, as described in said
Ordinance in accordance with the
Land Reutilization Program in such
manner as best carries out the
intent of said program.
Be it further resolved that the consideration for said parcel shall be
$900.00, which amount is hereby
determined to be not less than the
fair market value of said parcel for
uses in accordance with the Land
Reutilization Program.
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White and Director
Patterson.
Resolution No. 400-01.
By Directors Ricchiuto, Hudecek
and Konicek.
Be it resolved by the Board of
Control of the City of Cleveland,
that the bid of DiGioia-Suburban
Excavating LLC, for the public
improvement of Millcreek Housing
Development Project — Phase IVA,
for the Division of Engineering and
Construction, Departments of Public
Service,
Community
Development
and Public Utilities, received on
May 17, 2001, pursuant to the authority of Ordinance Nos. 1117-2000 and
2272-2000, passed October 16, 2000
and January 29, 2001, respectively,
upon a unit basis for the improvement in the aggregate amount of
One Million, One Hundred FortyFour Thousand, Six Hundred FiftySix
and
40/100
Dollars
($1,144,656.40), is hereby affirmed
and approved as the lowest responsible bid; and the Directors of Public Service, Community Development
and Public Utilities are hereby
authorized to enter into contract for
said improvement with said bidder.
Be it further resolved that the
employment of the following subcontractors by DiGioia-Suburban Excavating LLC for the aforementioned public improvement hereby is approved:
Cook Paving Construction Co., Inc.
11360 Brookpark Road
Cleveland, Ohio 44130
MBE 16%
L.T. Services, Inc.
P.O. Box 33004
North Royalton, Ohio 44133
FBE 3.6%
Collinwood Shale Brick & Supply Co.
12400 Broadway
Cleveland, Ohio 44125
FBE 1.5%
Yeas:
Directors
Carter,
Clark,
Konicek, Sheperd, Ricchiuto, Whitlow, Acting Director Smith, Directors Miller, Hudecek, Warren and
Alexander.
Nays: None.
Absent: Mayor White and Director
Patterson.
JEFFREY B. MARKS,
Secretary

1352

June 20, 2001
CIVIL SERVICE NOTICES
____________

General Information
Application blanks and information, regarding minimum entrance
qualifications, scope of examination,
and suggested reference materials
may be obtained at the office of the
Civil Service Commission, Room 119,
City Hall, East 6th Street, and Lakeside Avenue.
Application blanks must be properly filled out on the official form
prescribed by the Civil Service Commission and filed at the office of the
commission not later than the final
closing date slated in the examination announcement.
EXAMINATION RESULTS: Each
applicant whether passing or failing
will be notified of the results of the
examination as soon as the commission has graded the papers.
Thereafter, eligible lists will be
established which will consist of the
names of those candidates who have
been successful in all parts of the
examination.
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION:
All
candidates for original entrance
positions who are successful in
other parts of the examinations
must submit to a physical examination.
ANNE BLOOMBERG,
President

SCHEDULE OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JULY 2, 2001
9:30 A.M.
Calendar No. 01-111: 4375 West 191st
Street (Ward 21)
Elizabeth Legler, owner, appeals
to install approximately 90 linear
feet of 6' high wooden fencing to
the north of a 50' x 125' parcel
located in a One-Family District on
the east side of West 191st Street at
4375 West 191st Street; said installation being contrary to the Fence
Regulations where the proposed distance
between
the
neighboring
home is 4' and 6' is required as
stated in Section 358.04(a) of the
Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-112: 1347 Lakeview
Road (Ward 9)
Daisy Burch, owner, appeals to
enclose a one-story, 22' x 8' front
porch of an existing one dwelling
house situated on a 35' x 75' parcel
located in a Two-Family District on
the east side of Lakeview Road at
1347 Lakeview Road; said enclosure
being contrary to the Yards and
Courts Requirements where the proposed front porch projects 8' and
enclosed front porches shall not project more than 4' as stated in Section 357.13(b)(4) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-114: 3872 East 53rd
Street (Ward 12)
James Hlavsa, owner, appeals to
install approximately 250 linear feet
of 8' high wooden fencing to the
north, south and west of an approximate 134' x 180' irregular shaped
parcel located in a Two-Family District on the west side of East 53rd
Street at 3872 East 53rd Street, said
installation being contrary to the
Fence Regulations where the pro-

June 20, 2001
posed fencing height is 8' and the
permitted height is 6' as stated in
Section 358.04(a) of the Codified
Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-117: 16215 Trafalgar
Avenue (Ward 11)
Yolanda Harris, owner, appeals to
expand the use of an existing one
family dwelling unit to include a
day care, all situated on a 40' x 140'
parcel located in a Two-Family District on the north side of Trafalgar
Avenue at 16215 Trafalgar Avenue;
said expansion of use being contrary to the Residential District
Requirements where as regulated in
a
One-Family
District,
Section
337.02(f)(e), a day care is required
to be 30' from any adjoining residence not used for a similar purpose
and the proposed use is adjacent to
a Two-Family District as stated in
Section 337.03 of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-120: 1045 Old River
Road (Ward 13)
Spenco Partnership, owners d.b.a.
Circus-Circus Nightclub, appeals to
expand an existing two-story office
and nightclub building by adding an
exterior exit stairway and new exit
door to the rear of an existing 1,800
sq. ft. area situated on a 20' x 100'
parcel and located in a General
Industry District on the east side of
Old River Road at 1045 Old River
Road; said stairway and door additions being contrary to the Specific
Use
Regulations
of
Section
347.07(c)(3) where an adult entertainment facility is required to be
1000' from another adult entertainment facility and an existing adult
entertainment facility is located at
1180 Main Avenue which is approximately 550' away and contrary to
the expansion of nonconforming use
limitations and requires the Board
of Zoning Appeals approval as stated in Section 359.01(a) of the Codified Ordinances.
Calendar No. 01-121: 10411-10433 St
Clair Avenue (Ward 8)
McDonald’s
Corporation,
owner
c/o Dave Gnatowski, appeals to construct an approximate 44' x 116'
one-story restaurant and parking lot
for 53 vehicles all situated on an
acreage parcel located in a Shopping Center District on the northwest corner of East 105th Street and
St. Clair Avenue at 10411-10433 St.
Clair
Avenue;
said
construction
being contrary to the Off Street
Parking and Loading Requirements
of Section 349.07(c)(3) where the
maximum width of a driveway permitted is 30' and two driveways
each at 36' are proposed, and contrary to the Sign Regulations where
signage needs to comply with and
meet City Planning and Business
Revitalization
District
Design
Review guidelines as stated in Section 350.16 of the Codified Ordinances.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF ZONING APPEALS
MONDAY, JUNE 18, 2001
At the meeting of the Board of
Zoning Appeals on Monday, June 18,
2001, the following appeals were
heard by the Board:

The City Record

51

The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 01-103: 4136 West 160th
Street
Lee Grether, owner, appealed to
install 19 linear feet of 6' high wooden fencing in a One-Family District.
Calendar No. 01-104: 4293 Rocky
River Drive
Katherine Kullman, owner, appealed to install 322 linear feet of
4' high chain link fencing with a
gate and 49 linear feet of 4' high
split rail fencing in a Two-Family
District.
Calendar No. 01-128: 6114 Broadway
Avenue
Boys and Girls Club of Cleveland,
owner, appealed to construct a 175'
x 121' one-story recreational building in zoning for General Retail,
Semi-Industry and Residence Industry Districts.
The following appeal was Denied:
Calendar No. 01-88: 4635 Pearl Road
- Violation Notice
Pearlbrook Church of God, owner,
appealed from a Violation Notice
issued on March 16, 2001 by the Division of Building and Housing.
The following appeal was Postponed:
Calendar No. 01-101: 4226 East 71st
Street postponed to July 9, 2001.
The following
missed:

appeal

was

Dis-

Calendar No. 01-105: 1333 East 179th
Street
Cleveland Range, Inc., owners
appealed to install 20 linear feet of
6' high chain link fencing with
swing gate in split zoning for Semiindustry and General Industry Districts.
The following appeal was Withdrawn:
Calendar No. 01-106: 1103 Rowley
Avenue
Nikolay
Adamyuk,
owner,
appealed to construct a 22' x 24' onestory frame accessory garage in a
Two-Family District.
On Monday, June 18, 2001, in Executive Session:
The following appeals were heard
on Monday, June 11, 2001, and said
decisions
were
approved
and
adopted by the Board on June 18,
2001:
The following appeals were Approved:
Calendar No. 01-97: 921 Literary
Road
T & T Studio, owner c/o Thomas
Tomsik, appealed to change the use
of a two-story, two dwelling house
into an office in a General Retail
Business District.
Calendar No. 01-116: 12925 Watterson
Avenue
Michele Banks and Rhonda Turpin, owners, appealed to change the
use of a two-story, one dwelling
house into a boarding house for five
children, all male, ages 14-17, in a
Two-Family District.
EUGENE CRANFORD, JR.,
Secretary

1353

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF BUILDING STANDARDS
AND BUILDING APPEALS
NO MEETING

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS,
RECREATION AND
PROPERTIES
AMENDMENT TO RULES AND
REGULATIONS OF THE
DIRECTOR OF PARKS,
RECREATION AND PROPERTIES
Pursuant to the authority vested
in the Director of Parks, Recreation
and Properties (“Director”) by the
Council of the City of Cleveland
(“City”) under Section 133.03 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland,
the
Director
hereby
amends the Rules and Regulations
for the Use of Public Property
(“Rules”), as published in the May
19, 1993 City Record, as follows,:
1. Add a New Section 13 to read
as follows:
“13. FLAGS AT CITY HALL
“No person shall raise a flag on
any flagpole at City Hall without
receiving prior approval from the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties
(“Director”),
and
the
Director shall approve only flags
that fall within one of the following
classifications:
1. Official flags of nations, states,
territories and political subdivisions;
2. Flags of organizations to which
the United States of America is a
member;
3. Flags of voluntary, charitable,
health and welfare agencies that
provide or support direct health and
welfare services to individuals or
their families. Such services must
directly
benefit
human
beings,
whether children, youth, adults, the
aged, the ill and infirm or the mentally
or
physically
handicapped.
Such services must consist of care,
research or education in the fields
of human health or social adjustment and rehabilitation; relief of
victims of natural disasters and
other emergencies; or assistance to
those who are impoverished and
therefore in need of food, shelter,
clothing,
education,
and
basic
human welfare services. Flags of
agencies that seek to influence the
outcome of elections or the determination of public policy through political activity or advocacy, lobbying
or litigation on behalf of parties
other than themselves shall not be
approved by the Director.
4. Flags associated with the United States of America Armed Forces,
including the Marines, Army, Navy,
and Air Force;
5. Flags associated with the United States of America veterans of the
above-stated armed forces or military conflicts; and
6. Flags associated with national
or state holidays or with any observance proclaimed by a President of
the United States of America, provided that the subject matter of the
observance is civic in nature and is
not contrary to the City’s policies,
including above policy number 3.”
This amendment shall take effect
and be in force ten (10) days after
being published in the City Record.
Alfred T. Miller, Jr., Director,
Department of Parks, Recreation
and Properties
June 20, 2001

The City Record

52
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
NONE

CITY OF CLEVELAND BIDS
For All Departments
Sealed bids will be received at the
office of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, Room 128, City
Hall, in accordance with the appended schedule, and will be opened and
read in Room 128, City Hall, immediately thereafter.
Each bid must be made in accordance with the specifications and
must be submitted on the blanks
supplied for the purpose, all of
which may be obtained at the office
of the said Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies, but no bid will
be considered unless delivered to
the office of the said commissioner
previous to 12:00 noon (Eastern
Standard Time) on the date specified in the schedule.
187.10 Negotiated contracts; Notice
required in Advertisement for Bids.
Where invitations for bids are
advertised,
the
following
notice
shall be included in the advertisement: “Pursuant to the MBE/FBE
Code,
each
prime
bidder,
each
minority
business
enterprise
(“MBE”) and each female business
enterprise (“FBE”) must be certified before doing business with the
City. Therefore, any prime contractor wishing to receive credit for
using an MBE or FBE should
ensure that applications for certification as to MBE or FBE status
compliance with the Code, affirmative action in employment and, if
applicable, joint venture status, are
submitted to the Office of Equal
Opportunity (“OEO”) prior to the
date of bid opening or submission
of proposals or as specified by the
Director. Failure to comply with the
business enterprise code or with
representations
made
on
these
forms may result in cancellation of
the contract or other civil or criminal penalties.”
THURSDAY, JUNE 28, 2001

Sewer Test Tee Inspection, Installation and Snaking, for the Division
of
Water
Pollution
Control,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Section 541.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON MONDAY, JUNE 25,
2001, 11:00 A.M., DIVISION OF
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL,
12302 KIRBY AVENUE, AVENUE,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44108. ATTENDANCE IS MANDATORY.
June 13, 2001 and June 20, 2001
THURSDAY, JULY 5, 2001
One (1) Autosampler, for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1656-99, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 14, 1999.
One (1) Gas Chromatograph Mass
Selective System, for the Division
of Police, Department of Public
Safety, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1656-99, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 14, 1999.
June 13, 2001 and June 20, 2001
WEDNESDAY, JULY 11, 2001
Baldwin Waterworks Plant Gatehouse #1 Emergency Roof Repair,
for the Division of Water, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 819-2000,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, October 9, 2000.
A DEPOSIT OF TWO HUNDRED
DOLLARS ($200.00) CERTIFIED
CHECK OR MONEY ORDER WILL
BE REQUIRED FOR EACH SET OF
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
THE DEPOSIT WILL BE REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED
IN
GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS AFTER THE BID
OPENING DATE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON FRIDAY, JUNE 22,
2001, 10:00 A.M., AT THE BALDWIN
WATERWORKS
PLANT,
11216 FAIRHILL ROAD, CLEVELAND, OHIO AND WILL BE FOLLOWED BY A WALK-THROUGH
OF THE SITE.

Woodside
and
Edmonton
Area
Detention Facility, for the Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 194898, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, December 14,
1998.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) CERTIFIED CHECK OR
MONEY
ORDER
WILL
BE
REQUIRED FOR EACH SET OF
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
THE DEPOSIT WILL BE REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED
IN
GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS AFTER THE BID
OPENING DATE.

June 13, 2001 and June 20, 2001

June 13, 2001 and June 20, 2001

June 13, 2001 and June 20, 2001

Furniture, for the Division of Fire,
Department of Public Safety, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 9272000, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, June 19, 2000.

WEDNESDAY, JULY 25, 2001
Sodium Hypochlorite Solution, for
the Division of Water, Department
of Public Utilities, as authorized
by Section 129.24 of the Codified
Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, 1976.

FRIDAY, JUNE 29, 2001

FRIDAY, JULY 6, 2001

Chrysler Parts and Labor, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance
No. 359-01, passed by the Council
of the City of Cleveland, April 9,
2001.

Purchase and Installation of Concrete Pavers, for the Division of
Engineering
and
Construction,
Department of Public Service.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00)
CERTIFIED
CHECK
WILL BE REQUIRED FOR EACH

1354

June 20, 2001
SET OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. THE DEPOSIT WILL BE
REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND
SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED IN GOOD CONDITION
WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS
AFTER
THE
BID
OPENING
DATE.
AutoCad Software, Installation and
Support, for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1198-2000,
passed by the Council of the City
of Cleveland, August 7, 2000.
Disposal of Construction and Demolition Debris — Contracts C and
D, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 432-01, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 21, 2001.
BEGINNING
FRIDAY,
JUNE
22,
2001, PROSPECTIVE BIDDERS
MAY OBTAIN BID SPECIFICATIONS FROM THE DIVISION OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128.
Direct Haul of Solid Waste/Contingency Contract “Contingency”, for
the Division of Waste Collection
and Disposal, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 646-01, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 21, 2001.
BEGINNING
FRIDAY,
JUNE
22,
2001, PROSPECTIVE BIDDERS
MAY OBTAIN BID SPECIFICATIONS FROM THE DIVISION OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128.
Transfer of Bulk Waste — Contract
B, for the Division of Waste Collection and Disposal, Department
of Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 436-01, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, May 21, 2001.
BEGINNING
FRIDAY,
JUNE
22,
2001, PROSPECTIVE BIDDERS
MAY OBTAIN BID DIVISION OF
PURCHASES
AND
SUPPLIES,
CITY
HALL,
601
LAKESIDE
AVENUE, ROOM 128.
June 20, 2001 and June 27, 2001
THURSDAY, JULY 12, 2001
Interior Painting, Plastering and
Carpeting Replacement at Various Public Safety Fire and Police
Stations, for the Department of
Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 927-2000, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland.
A DEPOSIT OF FIFTY DOLLARS
($50.00) CERTIFIED CHECK OR
MONEY ORDER WILL BE REQUIRED
FOR EACH SET OF
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS.
THE DEPOSIT WILL BE REFUNDED IF THE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
ARE
RETURNED
IN
GOOD CONDITION WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS AFTER THE BID
OPENING DATE.
Removal and Disposal of Underground Storage Tanks, for the
Department of Public Service, as
authorized by Ordinance No. 13601, passed by the Council of the
City of Cleveland, April 30, 2001.

June 20, 2001
Grinding of Pavement, for the Division of Streets, Department of
Public Service, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 1681-2000, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, November 27, 2000.
Clean-Up and Securing of Sites, for
the Department of Community
Development, as authorized by
Ordinance No. 136-01, passed by
the Council of the City of Cleveland, April 30, 2001.
June 20, 2001 and June 27, 2001
THURSDAY, JULY 19, 2001
Automotive and Truck Parts/Service, for the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public Utilities, as authorized by Ordinance No. 544-01, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
May 21, 2001.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON MONDAY, JULY 9, 2001,
AT 2490 WEST 41ST STREET,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44113. ATTENDANCE IS MANDATORY.
June 20, 2001 and June 27, 2001
FRIDAY, JULY 20, 2001
Three Prisoner Van Conversion Interiors, Including Installation, for
the Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance, Department of Public Service, as authorized by Ordinance No. 1656-99, passed by the
Council of the City of Cleveland,
December 6, 1999.
June 20, 2001 and June 27, 2001
WEDNESDAY, JULY 25, 2001
Trench Water Management Services,
for the Division of Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport,
Department of Port Control.
BEGINNING APRIL 6, 2001, BID
PACKAGES
CAN
BE
PURCHASED FROM THE DIVISION
OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES
FOR NON-REFUNDABLE FEE OF
ONE
HUNDRED
DOLLARS
($100.00) CERTIFIED CHECK OR
MONEY
ORDER
ONLY.
PROSPECTIVE BIDDERS WILL
RECEIVE A VOUCHER TO PRESENT TO THE DESIGNATED
PRINTER
FOR
PLANS
AND
SPECIFICATIONS. OUT OF AREA
BIDDERS
SHOULD
PROVIDE
FEDERAL EXPRESS, UPS OR
OTHER
ACCOUNT
INFORMATION FOR SHIPMENT. PACKAGE INCLUDES PLANS, TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS, GENERAL
AND
CONTRACTUAL
REQUIREMENTS
AND
ANY
ADDENDA.
**PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS PROJECT IS A RE-BID. PREVIOUS
BIDDERS
SHOULD
PRESENT
ORIGINAL VOUCHER AS PROOF
OF PURCHASE TO RECEIVE A
FREE PACKAGE.
A PRE-BID MEETING WILL BE
HELD ON THURSDAY, JUNE 28,
2001, 10:00 A.M. TO 11:00 A.M. IN
THE ENGINEERING BUILDING,
19501
FIVE
POINTS
ROAD,
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44135 (PMT
CONFERENCE ROOM, SE CORNER OF CARGO ROAD AND
FIVE POINTS ROAD). THOUGH
NOT
MANDATORY,
ATTENDANCE IS STRONGLY RECOMMENDED.
ALL
QUESTIONS
MUST BE FAXED TO DEBORAH

The City Record
MIDGETT, PURCHASING SUPERVISOR AT (216) 664-2177.
PROJECT DETAILS: DURING CONSTRUCTION
PLANNED
AT
CLEVELAND HOPKINS INTERNATIONAL
AIRPORT
(CHIA),
THE CITY ANTICIPATES THAT
TRENCH WATER, IMPACTED
BY
DEICING
OR
AVIATION
FUEL
COMPOUNDS,
MAY
BE
ENCOUNTERED. THE IMPACTED
WATER
MUST
BE
COLLECTED,
STORED,
TESTED,
TREATED
(AS
NECESSARY),
AND DISPOSED OF PROPERLY.
THE CITY PLANS TO ISSUE A
THREE-YEAR
REQUIREMENT
CONTRACT FOR THIS WORK.
June 20, 2001 and June 27, 2001

ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
AND ORDINANCES

Res. No. 1099-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Jones
and White.
An emergency resolution urging
Governor Taft and the state legislature to reconsider certain funding
reductions and freezes to the Cleveland Public Library and urging support
for
the
Library
Recovery
Amendment.
Whereas, this Council of the City
of Cleveland strongly supports the
mission of the Cleveland Public
Library to provide books, information and service, thereby imparting
knowledge, to all people in a timely, convenient and equitable manner; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Public
Library uses technology to connect
with 25 other public library systems,
thereby serving 15% of Ohio’s population; and
Whereas, the Cleveland Public
Library is a regional library for the
blind and physically handicapped,
serving approximately 19,000 library
customers with special challenges in
55 counties in Northern Ohio; and
Whereas, the biennium budget
proposed by Governor Taft diverts
money from the Library and Local
Government Support Fund to the
State Library, negatively impacting
the Cleveland Public Library by
$728,000; and
Whereas, the proposed budget
reduces funding for the regional
library for the blind and physically
handicapped, negatively impacting
the Cleveland Public Library by an
additional $186,000; and
Whereas, the proposed state budget freezes the Library and Local
Government Support Fund, with the
total negative impact on the Cleveland Public Library estimated to be
$4,193,000 over a 2 year period; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland urges Governor
Taft and the state legislature to
defend, protect and promote the
future of Ohio’s public libraries by
reconsidering certain reductions and
freezes to the Cleveland Public
Library and this Council urges support
for
the
Library
Recovery
Amendment that would help restore
funding for the library’s programs.

1355

53
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby requested to transmit a copy of
this resolution to Governor Robert
Taft, members of the Cuyahoga
County
state
delegation,
and
Andrew Venable, Director of the
Cleveland Public Library.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

Res. No. 384-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency resolution requesting the Ohio Consumers Counsel and
the Public Utilities Commission of
Ohio to investigate and review the
tariff agreement between Dominion
East Ohio and the Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio pertaining to
rules and regulations of services
and urging Dominion East Ohio to
keep open its Payment and Billing
Explanation Center in Cleveland in
order to adequately serve City of
Cleveland residents.
Whereas, it is the understanding
of
Cleveland
City
Council
that
Dominion East Ohio is administering all billing for alternative gas
suppliers and therefore creating a
greater need for a Payment and
Billing Explanation Center in the
City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, it is also the understanding of Cleveland City Council
that Dominion East Ohio intends to
close down the Payment and Billing
Explanation Center currently located
in the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, a walk-in Payment and
Billing Explanation Center currently provides customers with the
immediate ability to, among other
things, have questions answered,
schedule investigation and rereads,
and have gas turned on or off; and
Whereas, without a walk-in Payment and Billing Explanation Center, customers will be limited to
unreliable
call-in
centers;
which
often fail to provide proper accessibility and service to consumers; and
Whereas, the closing of Dominion
East Ohio’s Payment and Billing
Explanation Center in Cleveland
would be a blatant attack on consumers and would demonstrate that
Dominion East Ohio is interested
only in competition in a deregulated market; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland requests the Ohio
Consumers Counsel and the Public
Utilities Commission of Ohio to
investigate and review the tariff
agreement between Dominion East
Ohio and the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio pertaining to the
rules and regulations of services
and urging Dominion East Ohio to
keep open its Payment and Billing
Explanation Center in Cleveland in
order to adequately serve City of
Cleveland residents.

54
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit
certified copies of this resolution the
Chairman of the Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio, the President
of the Ohio Senate and the Speaker
of the Ohio House of Representatives.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Res. No. 385-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency resolution urging
the Cleveland Police Department to
enforce Section 431.38 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, 1976 pertaining to stopping for
school buses.
Whereas, under both Ohio law and
the Codified Ordinances of the City,
a driver of a vehicle must stop at
least ten feet from any school bus
stopped for the purpose of receiving
or discharging any school child and
may not proceed until the school bus
resumes motion; and
Whereas, too many drivers in the
City fail to observe this law, and
continue
to
move
past
stopped
school buses that are loading or
unloading children; and
Whereas, the safety of our children
should be paramount in the minds of
all concerned citizens, drivers, and
the City’s safety forces; and
Whereas, it is incumbent upon the
police officers of the City to enforce
Ohio law and Section 431.38 of the
Codified Ordinances to ensure that
drivers stop for stopped school
buses; and

The City Record

June 20, 2001

Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council of the
City of Cleveland urges the Cleveland Police Department to enforce
Section 431.38 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Cleveland, 1976
pertaining to stopping for school
buses.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001, without
the signature of the Mayor.

Res. No. 662-01.
By Councilman Reed.
An emergency resolution urging
the City’s Department of
Parks,
Recreation and Properties to declare
the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources in default under its lease
with the City if land leased thereunder is no longer used to operate
and maintain a Civilian Conservation Corps Cleveland Camp.
Whereas, over the past twenty
years, the Ohio Department of Natural Resources Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) has provided
employment and training to over
18,000 young men and women in
Ohio, many of whom have been from
the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, in 1997, the City of
Cleveland entered into a lease with
the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources (ODNR) providing certain premises so that the ODNR

could construct, operate and maintain a CCC Cleveland Camp; and
Whereas, the governor of the
State of Ohio has proposed to eliminate the CCC program; and
Whereas, the proposed elimination
of the CCC program would mean
that the CCC Cleveland Camp would
also be eliminated; and
Whereas,
under
the
aforementioned lease, the use of the leased
premises shall be for the purpose of
constructing, operating and maintaining a CCC Cleveland Camp; and
Whereas, it is understood that,
rather than use the leased premises
for the CCC Camp, the state intends
to use the leased premises for other
purposes, in violation of the lease
agreement between the City and the
ODNR; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby urges the City’s Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties to
declare the Ohio Department of Natural Resources in default under its
lease with the City if land leased
thereunder is no longer used to operate and maintain a Civilian Conservation Corps Cleveland Camp.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to transmit certified copies of this resolution to the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources
Civilian Conservation Corps.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Res. No. 1085-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency resolution to adopt and declare a Tax Budget for the year 2002, as required by State Law, Chapter
5705 of the Revised Code.
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Council, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 5705 of the Revised Code, after public hearings
thereon as required by law, does hereby adopt the statements of the year 2002 requirements for the several funds
of the City of Cleveland, as being the budget required by state law to be submitted to the County Budget
Commission which requirements are as follows:

Amount to
be Derived
From Levies
Outside
10-Mill
Limitation
Column II
GENERAL FUND
BOND RETIREMENT FUND
POLICE PENSION FUND
FIRE PENSION FUND
TOTAL

$

$
1356

Amount
Approved
By Budget
Commission
Inside 10-Mill
Limitation
Column IV

County Auditor’s
Estimate of Tax Rate
To Be Levied
Inside
Outside
10-Mill
10-Mill
Limit
Limit
Column V
Column VI

The City Record

June 20, 2001

55

SCHEDULE B
---------LEVIES OUTSIDE 10 MILL LIMITATION, EXCLUSIVE OF DEBT LEVIES
=================================================================================================
FUND
MAXIMUM RATE
TAX YEAR
AUTHORIZED TO BE
COUNTY AUDITOR’S
LEVIED
ESTIMATE OF
YIELD OF LEVY
(carry to schedule A,
column 3)
=================================================================================================
GENERAL FUND:
Current Expense Levy authorized by City Charter
8.3 mills
effective 11/21/67.
Current Expense Levy authorized by voters on __/__/__,
not to exceed _____years. Auth.under Sect.______,R.C.
Current Expense Levy authorized by voters on __/__/__,
not to exceed _____years. Auth. under Sect.______,R.C.
Current Expense Levy authorized by voters on __/__/__,
not to exceed _____years. Auth.under Sect.______,R.C.
Current Expense Levy authorized by voters on __/__/__,
not to exceed _____years. Auth.under Sect.______,R.C. ------------------------TOTAL GENERAL FUND OUTSIDE 10 M.LIMITATION

8.3 mills
============== ==================================

---------------

-------------

1999
ACTUAL
GENERAL FUND
LOCAL TAXES
Property Tax
Income Tax
Admission Tax
Exhibition Tax
Video Game Tax
Motor Vehicle Lessor Tax
Parking Tax
Total
LICENSES & PERMITS
Building Licenses and Permits
Other Licenses and Permits
Total
INTERGOVERNMENTAL REVENUE
Local Government Fund
State Cigarette and Liquor Tax
Estate Tax
Total

Total

--------------

2000
ACTUAL

--------------

2001
BUDGET

2002
TAX BUDGET

$

45,963,605
245,844,055
9,443,763
0
57,625
3,420,768
9,413,648
_____________
$ 314,143,464

$

45,131,344
268,786,351
13,361,814
0
54,851
3,551,386
11,053,740
_____________
$ 341,939,486

$

48,318,224
270,396,223
10,100,000
0
65,280
3,705,660
10,300,000
_____________
$ 342,885,387

48,801,406
275,804,147
10,100,000
0
65,280
3,705,660
10,300,000
____________
$
348,776,493

$

7,309,656
1,421,584
_____________
$
8,731,240

$

7,549,553
1,789,294
_____________
$
9,338,847

$

6,849,479
1,334,521
_____________
$
8,184,000

$

6,849,479
1,334,521
____________
$
8,184,000

$

$

58,192,835
957,931
5,186,696
_____________
$
64,337,461

$

58,525,765
1,161,000
5,645,000
_____________
$
65,331,765

$

$

502,875
1,480,399
11,649,450
36,310
139,777
680,764
1,687,806
_____________
$ 16,177,381

$

77,998
1,985,285
10,242,478
31,758
65,266
569,615
1,155,000
_____________
$
14,127,400

$

77,998
1,985,285
10,242,478
31,758
65,266
569,615
1,155,000
____________
$
14,127,400

$

$

$

56,923,651
1,513,790
7,337,064
_____________
$
65,774,505

SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Misc. City Sales
$
357,196
Cable TV-Franchise Fees
1,909,510
Charges for Service
9,430,217
Commissions
47,757
Concession Revenue
35,963
Rental of City Property
558,926
Commercial Waste Collection
1,331,559
_____________
Total
$
13,671,128
FINES AND FORFEITURES
Fines
Cash Bonds
Court Trustee
Court Costs
Criminal Bond Forfeiture

-----------------------------------------------------------

$

14,574,253
126,582
2,175
1,907,509
0
_____________
$
16,610,519

16,115,686
136,334
2,272
1,588,338
0
_____________
$
17,842,631

1357

14,600,002
137,000
10,000
1,911,000
0
_____________
$
16,658,002

$

58,525,765
1,161,000
5,645,000
____________
$
65,331,765

14,600,002
137,000
10,000
1,911,000
0
____________
$
16,658,002

The City Record

56

1999
ACTUAL
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Sale of Capital Plant
Sale of Recyclable Waste
Refunds
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Damaged City Property
Reimbursement
Expenditure Recoveries

June 20, 2001

2000
ACTUAL

$

2001
BUDGET

2002
TAX BUDGET

0
0
2,548
4,575,065
2,320,380
_____________
$
6,897,993

$

0
0
0
6,723,093
2,519,155
_____________
$
9,242,248

$

0
0
0
14,019,947
3,322,570
_____________
$
17,342,517

$

$

$

$

$

0

140,289

0

0
0
0
14,019,947
3,322,570
____________
$
17,342,517

0

6,296,051
_____________
$
6,296,051
_____________
$ 432,124,900

17,591,024
_____________
$
17,731,313
_____________
$ 476,609,366

12,534,306
_____________
$
12,534,306
_____________
$ 477,063,377

12,534,306
____________
$
12,534,306
____________
$
482,954,483

Security of Persons and Property (Safety)
Salaries and Wages
$ 176,517,126
Employee Benefits
59,090,468
Training and Professional Dues
31,803
Utilities
2,778,898
Contractual Services
2,060,359
Material and Supplies
2,367,664
Maintenance
1,195,982
Claims, Refunds and Misc.
152,696
Inter-Departmental Services
7,811,398
Capital Outlay
0
_____________
Total Security of Persons and Property
$ 252,006,394

$ 185,354,294
59,377,384
105,151
2,248,078
2,594,985
2,500,156
1,322,352
164,315
7,814,215
0
_____________
$ 261,480,929

$

188,378,256
64,410,973
62,402
3,045,967
1,933,555
2,217,250
1,172,437
180,000
7,549,929
700,000
_____________
$ 269,650,769

$

$

7,406,618
2,068,757
16,487
327,125
1,418,405
824,105
59,646
0
621,069
0
_____________
$
12,742,212

$

8,051,809
2,603,223
10,261
552,165
1,280,255
702,374
75,020
0
377,482
0
_____________
$
13,652,589

$

$

21,816,814
6,017,377
24,719
2,754,448
2,278,518
1,846,117
189,478
9,625
2,611,146
25,000
_____________
$
37,573,243

$

23,629,435
7,026,041
8,586
3,278,657
2,401,142
1,721,141
241,566
1,000
2,001,770
233,333
_____________
$
40,542,671

$

23,777,139
7,512,645
8,888
3,606,522
2,877,182
1,781,381
250,021
1,035
2,091,590
233,333
____________
$
42,139,736

$

$

$

Total
TOTAL
GENERAL FUND
EXPENDITURES

Public Health Services (Health & Aging)
Salaries and Wages
$
7,386,091
Employee Benefits
2,058,122
Training and Professional Dues
12,406
Utilities
362,458
Contractual Services
1,005,850
Material and Supplies
963,194
Maintenance
49,913
Claims
288
Inter-Departmental Services
406,756
Capital Outlay
0
_____________
Total Public Health Services
$
12,245,078
Leisure Time Activities (Parks, Recreation & Properties)
Salaries and Wages
$
20,921,657
Employee Benefits
5,874,577
Training and Professional Dues
11,617
Utilities
2,744,903
Contractual Services
2,220,348
Material and Supplies
1,656,514
Maintenance
253,614
Claims, Refunds and Misc.
4,259
Inter-departmental Services
2,383,387
Capital Outlay
0
_____________
Total Leisure Time Activities
$
36,070,876
Community Environment (Service)
Salaries and Wages
Employee Benefits
Training and Professional Dues
Utilities
Contractual Services
Material and Supplies
Maintenance
Claims, Refunds and Misc.
Inter-departmental Services
Capital Outlay
Total Community Environment

$

13,909,350
5,320,087
8,494
437,087
8,608,355
221,399
84,164
1,060
2,633,986
0
_____________
$
31,223,982

15,216,018
4,802,475
26,180
450,172
9,181,118
288,015
77,302
1,039
3,531,468
5,555
_____________
$
33,579,342

1358

15,193,619
5,945,738
17,000
609,816
9,317,782
268,858
103,500
2,000
2,298,418
233,334
_____________
$
33,990,065

192,625,456
70,534,049
64,587
3,350,565
2,001,229
2,294,854
1,213,473
186,301
7,801,373
700,000
____________
$
280,771,887

8,235,695
2,807,866
10,620
607,382
1,325,064
726,958
77,647
0
377,405
0
____________
$
14,168,637

16,319,642
6,454,800
17,596
670,797
9,643,905
278,268
107,123
2,070
2,409,424
233,334
____________
$
36,136,959

The City Record

June 20, 2001

1999
ACTUAL
Legal/Financial Administration
Salaries and Wages
Employee Benefits
Training and Professional Dues
Contractual Services
Material and Supplies
Maintenance
Claims, Refunds and Misc.
Inter-departmental Services
Total Legal/Financial Administration

$

7,885,005
1,772,811
137,649
1,816,109
216,503
285,167
1,614,152
649,148
_____________
$
14,376,544

Urban Planning & Development (CD, ED, Harbors)
Salaries and Wages
$
5,391,852
Employee Benefits
1,630,296
Training and Professional Dues
32,361
Contractual Services
335,522
Material and Supplies
69,537
Maintenance
15,372
Claims, Refunds and Misc.
409
Inter-departmental Services
232,726
Capital Outlay
0
_____________
Total Urban Planning & Development
$
7,708,075
General Government
Salaries and Wages
Employee Benefits
Training and Professional Dues
Utilities
Contractual Services
Material and Supplies
Maintenance
Claims, Refunds and Misc.
Inter-departmental Services
Total General Government
Non-Departmental
Transfers (Interfund Subsidies)
Training and Professional Dues
Utilities
Contractual Services
Material and Supplies
Maintenance
Claims, Refunds and Misc.

57

2000
ACTUAL

2001
BUDGET

2002
TAX BUDGET

$

7,890,714
1,801,806
136,627
2,503,843
188,989
303,362
5,974,206
361,116
_____________
$
19,160,663

$

8,167,594
2,243,790
152,528
2,362,036
179,958
380,551
935,000
384,330
_____________
$
14,805,787

$

8,354,573
2,436,600
157,867
2,444,707
186,256
393,872
967,725
384,656
____________
$
15,326,256

$

8,623,034
2,341,058
82,205
1,870,698
146,979
82,166
1,177
441,061
8,586
_____________
$
13,596,965

$

12,531,615
4,178,469
86,525
441,535
123,071
76,100
900
324,890
0
_____________
$
17,763,105

$

$

12,817,712
4,290,895
89,553
456,988
127,378
78,764
932
329,677
0
____________
$
18,191,899

$

22,837,819
5,671,980
155,276
0
5,040,765
585,892
47,881
124
1,177,607
_____________
$
35,517,344

$

23,435,784
5,793,123
203,166
0
5,253,709
668,785
30,109
78
1,107,832
_____________
$
36,492,585

$

25,887,839
6,648,519
202,853
600
6,284,186
658,910
89,075
0
1,001,904
_____________
$
40,773,886

26,479,900
7,415,144
209,955
660
6,504,134
681,973
92,194
0
1,006,087
____________
$
42,390,047

$

$

$

$

Revenues over/(under) Expenditures

24,777,403
182,104
9,977,703
6,171,170
0
0
4,236
_____________
$
41,112,616
_____________
$ 430,260,909
_____________
$
1,863,991

39,464,914
309,779
9,599,302
7,050,788
0
0
863
_____________
$
56,425,646
_____________
$ 471,051,585
_____________
$
5,557,781

44,660,684
259,505
10,350,010
7,264,745
0
0
4,500
_____________
$
62,539,444
_____________
$ 493,718,316
_____________
$ (16,654,939)

45,182,712
268,588
11,385,011
6,788,989
0
0
3,884
____________
$
63,629,184
____________
$
512,754,605
____________
$ (29,800,122)

Decertifications

$

$

$

$

0

Beginning Unencumbered Balance

$
2,492,452
_____________

$
4,422,288
_____________

$

16,684,272
_____________

$

29,333
____________

$

4,422,288
_____________

$

16,684,272
_____________

$

29,333
_____________

$

(29,770,789)
____________

4,527,732
3,082,705
1,445,027
_____________
$
4,527,732

$

4,700,175
2,733,250
1,966,925
_____________
$
4,700,175

$

5,457,038
3,164,933
2,292,105
_____________
$
5,457,038

$

5,616,051
3,244,807
2,371,244
___________
5,616,051

$

$

$

$

Total Other Uses of Funds
TOTAL EXPENDITURES

Estimated Ending Unencumbered
Fund Balance

65,845

6,704,203

0

LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Council and Clerk of Council
I Personnel
II Other
Total Legislative Branch

$

$

MUNICIPAL COURT
Judicial Division
I Personnel
II Other
Clerks Division
I Personnel
II Other
Housing Division
I Personnel
II Other
Total Municipal Court

13,851,642
12,147,897
1,703,745
7,516,284
5,533,832
1,982,452

1,886,896
1,794,109
92,787
_____________
$
23,254,822

14,553,137
12,825,416
1,727,720
7,858,806
5,748,961
2,109,845

1,936,524
1,842,911
93,613
_____________
$
24,348,466

1359

15,989,490
13,869,127
2,120,363
8,774,713
6,620,953
2,153,760

2,438,196
2,318,996
119,200
_____________
$
27,202,399

16,727,418
14,539,212
2,188,206
9,133,844
6,917,249
2,216,595

2,525,380
2,402,244
123,136
____________
$
28,386,642

The City Record

58

1999
ACTUAL

June 20, 2001

2000
ACTUAL

2001
BUDGET

2002
TAX BUDGET

EXECUTIVE BRANCH
Office of the Mayor
I Personnel
II Other

$

1,565,305
1,341,450
223,855

$

1,610,958
1,362,766
248,192

$

1,658,323
1,420,042
238,281

$

1,713,514
1,470,620
242,894

$

4,518,481
3,915,494
602,987

$

3,805,998
3,229,725
576,272

$

4,467,138
3,863,480
603,658

$

4,623,023
3,998,976
624,047

Public Safety
Public Safety Administration
I Personnel
II Other
Division of Police
I Personnel
II Other

159,226,396
148,383,345
10,843,051

162,996,717
152,334,618
10,662,099

169,011,878
158,190,381
10,821,497

176,205,951
164,916,879
11,289,072

Division of Fire
I Personnel
II Other

68,571,708
65,763,036
2,808,672

73,743,482
70,454,366
3,289,116

74,430,966
71,032,493
3,398,473

77,391,438
73,834,327
3,557,111

Division of Emergency Medical Services
I Personnel
II Other

15,573,878
14,407,822
1,166,056

16,692,538
15,403,212
1,289,326

17,085,624
15,997,784
1,087,840

17,691,629
16,565,030
1,126,599

3,426,487
2,603,077
823,410

3,577,331
2,740,119
837,212

3,808,787
2,963,628
845,159

3,978,162
3,073,191
904,971

Division of Traffic Engineering
I Personnel
II Other
Division of Dog Pound
I Personnel
II Other
Total Public Safety
Community Relations Board
I Personnel
II Other

689,444
534,820
154,624
_____________
$ 252,006,394

664,865
569,638
95,226
_____________
$ 261,480,929

846,376
741,463
104,913
_____________
$ 269,650,769

881,684
771,102
110,582
____________
$
280,771,887

$

900,397
698,884
201,513

$

847,581
604,718
242,863

$

1,005,804
724,132
281,672

$

1,039,432
740,657
298,775

$

368,791
353,242
15,549

$

428,794
410,107
18,687

$

456,713
438,185
18,528

$

473,014
454,393
18,621

Public Service
Public Service Administration
I Personnel
II Other
Division of Architecture
I Personnel
II Other
Division of Waste Collection and Disposal
I Personnel
II Other

495,322
465,272
30,050

570,953
538,228
32,725

620,806
588,511
32,295

642,072
608,783
33,289

25,875,117
14,317,403
11,557,714

27,597,718
14,437,658
13,160,060

27,670,998
15,266,908
12,404,090

29,590,413
16,697,027
12,893,386

Division of Engineering and Construction
I Personnel
II Other
Total Public Service

4,484,752
4,093,520
391,232
_____________
$
31,223,982

4,981,877
4,632,501
349,377
_____________
$
33,579,342

5,241,548
4,845,753
395,795
_____________
$
33,990,065

5,431,460
5,014,239
417,221
____________
$
36,136,959

$

$

$

Parks, Recreation and Properties
Parks, Recreation, and Properties Admin. $
I Personnel
II Other

620,547
451,403
169,144

Division of Research, Planning, and Dev.
I Personnel
II Other

639,188
564,447
74,741

691,825
624,035
67,790

736,353
660,052
76,301

762,232
683,309
78,923

10,979,676
7,959,989
3,019,687

11,772,487
8,772,895
2,999,592

13,578,953
10,281,818
3,297,135

14,225,916
10,703,027
3,522,889

737,895
697,712
40,183

683,701
649,826
33,876

800,652
764,894
35,758

834,753
797,079
37,674

10,701,867
8,421,009
2,280,858

10,929,571
8,386,199
2,543,372

11,297,334
8,854,919
2,442,415

11,710,492
9,109,391
2,601,101

Division of Recreation
I Personnel
II Other
Division of Parking Facilities
I Personnel
II Other
Division of Property Management
I Personnel
II Other

1360

743,647
571,562
172,085

792,138
621,243
170,895

822,120
645,743
176,377

The City Record

June 20, 2001

1999
ACTUAL
Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I Personnel
II Other
Total Parks, Recreation and Properties
Boxing and Wrestling Commission
I Personnel
II Other

59

2000
ACTUAL

2001
BUDGET

2002
TAX BUDGET

12,391,703
8,701,674
3,690,029
_____________
$
36,070,876

12,752,012
8,829,674
3,922,338
_____________
$
37,573,243

13,337,241
9,472,550
3,864,691
_____________
$
40,542,671

13,784,223
9,351,235
4,432,988
____________
$
42,139,736

$

6,414
6,414
0

$

976
976
0

$

0
0
0

$

0
0
0

$

110,776
110,776

$

263,648
263,648

$

466,924
466,924

$

475,971
475,971

Urban Planning & Development
Community Development
Director’s Office
I Personnel
Division of Administrative Services
I Personnel
Division of Building and Housing
I Personnel
II Other
Division of Neighborhood Services
I Personnel

89,975
89,975

1,368,348
1,368,348

2,161,495
2,161,495

2,205,180
2,205,180

5,938,595
5,512,983
425,612

8,970,549
6,934,782
2,035,767

10,874,668
10,427,570
447,098

11,151,355
10,693,033
458,322

75,874
75,874

957,049
957,049

1,330,741
1,330,741

1,369,231
1,369,231

Division of Neighborhood Development
I Personnel
II Other
Subtotal Community Development
Regulatory Boards & Commissions
Landmarks Commission
I Personnel
II Other

364,550
187,874
176,676
_____________
$
6,579,770

1,022,775
823,634
199,141
_____________
$
12,582,369

1,701,134
1,501,134
200,000
_____________
$
16,534,962

1,724,878
1,517,878
207,000
____________
$
16,926,615

$

$

$

$

Bd. of Bldg. Standards and Appeals
I Personnel
II Other
Board of Zoning Appeals
I Personnel
II Other
Bd. of Examiners of Plumbers and Elect.
I Personnel
II Other
Fair Campaign Finance Commission
I Personnel
II Other

96,604
91,225
5,379

100,869
94,729
6,139

145,968
138,529
7,439

155,344
147,695
7,649

83,049
73,792
9,257

89,176
72,483
16,693

103,271
83,912
19,359

106,560
86,662
19,898

230,470
215,121
15,349

251,145
232,261
18,884

268,392
239,367
29,025

276,021
246,072
29,949

82,927
80,349
2,578

78,278
75,453
2,825

136,339
132,917
3,422

145,244
141,770
3,474

2,265
0
2,265
_____________
$
495,315

0
0
0
_____________
$
519,467

9,852
0
9,852
_____________
$
663,822

10,197
0
10,197
____________
$
693,366

Economic Development
I Personnel
II Other

$

1,128,305
1,044,666
83,639

$

1,014,595
968,165
46,431

$

1,172,126
1,124,767
47,359

$

1,207,142
1,158,401
48,741

Office of Equal Opportunity
I Personnel
II Other

$

588,378
531,569
56,809

$

509,374
464,928
44,446

$

538,001
493,301
44,700

$

546,976
501,635
45,341

City Planning Commission
I Personnel
II Other

$

1,194,699
1,153,771
40,928

$

1,328,077
1,263,754
64,323

$

1,344,977
1,297,412
47,565

$

1,387,456
1,338,715
48,741

Port Control-Harbor Development
I Personnel
II Other

$

Total Regulatory Boards

Total Urban Planning & Development
Public Health
Health Administration
I Personnel
II Other

0
0
0
_____________
$
9,986,467

0
0
0
_____________
$
15,953,883

56,017
56,017
0
_____________
$
20,309,905

58,142
58,142
0
____________
$
20,819,697

$

$

$

$

407,853
316,567
91,286

$

1361

877,678
741,159
136,519

$

954,784
861,684
93,100

$

987,286
890,663
96,623

The City Record

60

1999
ACTUAL

June 20, 2001

2000
ACTUAL

2001
BUDGET

2002
TAX BUDGET

Division of Correction
I Personnel
II Other

5,831,718
4,385,549
1,446,169

5,866,026
4,400,304
1,465,722

5,866,733
4,695,045
1,171,688

6,094,506
4,873,948
1,220,558

Division of Health
I Personnel
II Other

3,414,777
2,520,100
894,677

3,452,277
2,204,409
1,247,868

3,829,176
2,511,206
1,317,970

3,972,691
2,593,561
1,379,130

Division of The Environment
I Personnel
II Other
Total Public Health
Aging
Aging
I Personnel
II Other
SUPPORT FUNCTIONS
Financial & Legal Administration
Finance Department
Director’s Office
I Personnel
II Other

2,361,383
2,058,667
302,716
_____________
$
12,015,731

2,276,769
1,923,620
353,149
_____________
$
12,472,750

2,596,584
2,295,044
301,540
_____________
$
13,247,277

2,698,210
2,386,034
312,176
____________
$
13,752,693

$

229,347
163,330
66,017

$

269,462
205,883
63,579

$

405,312
292,053
113,259

$

415,944
299,355
116,589

$

368,610
338,847
29,763

$

377,789
345,082
32,707

$

391,905
358,545
33,360

$

401,729
369,039
32,690

Division of Accounts
I Personnel
II Other

1,212,332
804,397
407,935

1,387,832
876,984
510,847

1,290,262
904,945
385,317

1,349,103
950,670
398,433

Division of Assessments and Licenses
I Personnel
II Other

1,145,696
958,160
187,536

1,073,856
891,134
182,722

1,086,668
900,424
186,244

1,130,920
941,379
189,541

Division of Treasury
I Personnel
II Other

427,168
353,411
73,757

470,281
402,360
67,922

472,426
406,496
65,930

496,729
428,647
68,082

Division of Purchases and Supplies
I Personnel
II Other

685,873
608,451
77,422

556,557
466,268
90,290

687,157
595,280
91,877

716,519
624,181
92,338

Bureau of Internal Audit
I Personnel
II Other

363,795
140,992
222,803

606,280
441,137
165,142

755,495
526,962
228,533

800,462
563,938
236,524

Division of Financial Reporting and Control
I Personnel
II Other
Total Finance Department

1,349,184
893,107
456,077
_____________
$
5,552,658

Office of Budget and Mgmt.-Budget Admin. $
I Personnel
II Other
Law
I Personnel
II Other

Total Finance & Legal Administration

507,068
468,380
38,688

1,280,296
854,059
426,237
_____________
$
5,752,891

1,663,000
1,198,826
464,174
_____________
$
6,346,913

1,717,314
1,238,228
479,086
____________
$
6,612,776

$

$

$

8,316,818
5,092,071
3,224,747

$

_____________
14,376,544

660,977
620,642
40,335
12,746,795
4,794,854
7,951,941

$

_____________
19,160,663

648,609
607,466
41,143
7,810,265
4,912,440
2,897,825

$

_____________
14,805,787

682,961
640,714
42,247
8,030,519
5,034,377
2,996,142

$

____________
15,326,256

PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
Personnel
I Personnel
II Other

$

Civil Service Commission
I Personnel
II Other

1,178,499
525,697
652,802
_____________
$
2,984,282

Total Personnel Administration

1,805,783
1,088,527
717,256

$

1,637,892
1,122,924
514,967

989,617
620,504
369,113
_____________
$
2,627,509

1362

$

1,666,466
1,174,629
491,837

1,237,056
661,536
575,520
_____________
$
2,903,522

$

1,725,728
1,218,083
507,645

1,280,882
685,554
595,328
____________
$
3,006,610

The City Record

June 20, 2001

1999
ACTUAL

61

2000
ACTUAL

2001
BUDGET

2002
TAX BUDGET

NONDEPARTMENTAL
County Auditor Deductions
II Other

$

Other Administrative
II Other
Total NonDepartmental

15,493,541
15,493,541
_____________
$
16,335,213

16,314,201
16,314,201
_____________
$
16,960,732

16,117,060
16,117,060
_____________
$
17,878,760

17,350,877
17,350,877
____________
$
18,446,472

TOTAL SUPPORT FUNCTIONS

$

$

$

$

SUBSIDIES TO OTHER FUNDS

TOTAL GENERAL
FUND EXPENDITURES

33,696,039

646,531
646,531

38,748,903

$

39,464,914

_____________

_____________

$ 430,260,909
_____________

$ 471,051,585
_____________

Decertifications

1,761,700
1,761,700

35,588,069

$

44,660,684

493,718,316
_____________

36,779,338
45,182,712

_____________
$

1,095,595
1,095,595

____________
$

512,754,605
____________

1,863,991

5,557,781

(16,654,939)

(29,800,122)

65,845

6,704,203

0

0

2,492,452
_____________
$
4,422,288
_____________
_____________

Ending Balance

$

24,777,403

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance

841,672
841,672

4,422,288
_____________
$
16,684,272
_____________
_____________

16,684,272
_____________
$
29,333
_____________
_____________

29,333
____________
$ (29,770,789)
____________
____________

$

SPECIAL REVENUE FUND GROUP
RESTRICTED INCOME TAX FUND
REVENUE
LOCAL TAXES
City Income Tax
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$
30,782,954
_____________
$
30,782,954

$

33,597,776
_____________
$
33,597,776

$

33,523,697
_____________
$
33,523,697

34,275,215
____________
$
34,275,215

$
0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
30,782,954
_____________

$

400,904
_____________
$
400,904
_____________
$
33,998,681
_____________

$

400,303
_____________
$
400,303
_____________
$
33,924,000
_____________

$

$
28,312,215
_____________
$
28,312,215
_____________

$

38,259,952
_____________
$
38,259,952
_____________

$

33,924,000
_____________
$
33,924,000
_____________

$

2,470,739

$ (4,261,271)

$

$

0

447,479

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance

1,918,310
_____________
$
4,389,049
_____________
_____________

Ending Balance

4,389,049
_____________
$
575,257
_____________
_____________

0

400,303
____________
400,303
____________
$
34,675,518
____________

$

35,250,775
____________
$
35,250,775
____________

0

575,257
_____________
$
575,257
_____________
_____________

(575,257)
0

575,257
____________
$
0
____________
____________

STREET CONSTRUCTION MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
REVENUES
LICENSES & PERMITS
Other Licenses & Permits
Total Source
INTERGOVERNMENTAL REVENUE
Gasoline Excise Tax
Motor Vehicle License Tax
Total Source

$

96,118
_____________
$
96,118

$
100
_____________
$
100

$

112
_____________
$
112

$

$

$

$

$

6,284,529
4,996,535
_____________
$
11,281,064

6,018,192
4,992,994
_____________
$
11,011,186

1363

6,754,062
5,602,436
_____________
$
12,356,498

112
____________
$
112

6,754,062
5,602,436
____________
$
12,356,498

The City Record

62

1999
ACTUAL
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Miscellaneous City Sales
$
Charges for Service
Commissions
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from Other Funds
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Damaged City Property Reimbursement
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

2001
BUDGET

0
1,780,418
0
_____________
$
1,780,418

$

0
1,997,944
0
_____________
$
1,997,944

0
1,997,944
0
____________
$
1,997,944

$
2,005
_____________
$
2,005

$
18,611
_____________
$
18,611

$

20,884
_____________
$
20,884

$

$
6,983,000
_____________
$
6,983,000

$
6,536,450
_____________
$
6,536,450

$

7,719,783
_____________
$
7,719,783

$

8,143,161
____________
$
8,143,161

$

4,086
4,052,834
_____________
$
4,056,920
_____________
$
23,650,220

$

4,436
5,449,562
_____________
$
5,453,998
_____________
$
24,800,763

$

4,687
5,760,082
_____________
$
5,764,769
_____________
$
27,859,990

$

4,687
5,760,082
____________
$
5,764,769
____________
$
28,283,368

$

$

13,366,240
11,577,972
_____________
$
24,944,212
_____________

$

14,061,259
13,848,731
_____________
$
27,909,990
_____________

$

$

$

$

13,233,626
12,318,464
_____________
$
25,552,090
_____________

(1,901,870)
1,232,770

669,100
_____________
$
0
_____________
_____________

(143,450)
509,954

0
_____________
$
366,504
_____________
_____________

(50,000)

Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

Ending Balance

20,884
____________
$
20,884

14,430,173
14,169,699
____________
$
28,599,872
____________

366,504
_____________
$
316,504
_____________
_____________

(316,504)
0

316,504
____________
$
0
____________
____________

$

2,000,000
____________
$
2,000,000

$
0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
2,000,000

$
37,000
_____________
$
37,000
_____________
$
2,037,000

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
2,000,000

18,000
____________
$
18,000
____________
$
2,018,000

$
2,000,000
_____________
$
2,000,000
_____________

$
4,000,000
_____________
$
4,000,000
_____________

$
2,000,000
_____________
$
2,000,000
_____________

$

$ (1,963,000)
0

$

$

2,000,000
_____________
$
37,000
_____________
_____________

37,000
_____________
$
37,000
_____________
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance

$

0

SCHOOLS RECREATION AND CULTURAL ACTIVITIES FUND
REVENUES
REVENUE TRANSFERS
Revenue from other funds
$
2,000,000
$
2,000,000
$
2,000,000
_____________
_____________
_____________
Total Source
$
2,000,000
$
2,000,000
$
2,000,000
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue

2002
TAX BUDGET

$

Decertifications

Ending Balance

2000
ACTUAL

8,387
1,222,726
0
_____________
$
1,231,113

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance

June 20, 2001

0
0

2,000,000
_____________
$
2,000,000
_____________
_____________

1364

0
0

$

2,000,000
____________
$
2,000,000
____________

18,000
0

37,000
____________
$
55,000
____________
____________

The City Record

June 20, 2001

1999
ACTUAL

63

2000
ACTUAL

2001
BUDGET

2002
TAX BUDGET

DEBT SERVICE FUND
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Sales and Charges for Service
$
Total Source
REVENUE TRANSFERS
Revenue from Other Funds
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from Other Funds
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

0
_____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

$
0
_____________
$
0

0
____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

$
456,685
_____________
$
456,685

$
370,814
_____________
$
370,814

$

376,464
_____________
$
376,464

$

475,114
____________
$
475,114

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
456,685

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
370,814

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
376,464

$

0
____________
$
0
____________
$
475,114

$

$

69,305
303,729
_____________
$
373,035
_____________

$

76,920
389,180
_____________
$
466,100
_____________

$

$

$

$

67,623
389,061
_____________
$
456,684
_____________

Total Expenditures

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance

1
0

5,662
_____________
$
5,663
_____________
_____________

Ending Balance

(2,221)
91,514

5,663
_____________
$
94,956
_____________
_____________

(89,636)
0

94,956
_____________
$
5,320
_____________
_____________

$

0
____________
$
0

77,631
402,803
____________
$
480,434
____________

(5,320)
0

5,320
____________
$
0
____________
____________

UNVOTED -TAX SUPPORTED OBLIGATIONS
REVENUES
LOCAL TAXES
Property Tax
Total Source
INTERGOVERNMENTAL REVENUE
Grant Revenue
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Interest Income
Revenue from Visitors Bureau
Total Source
REVENUE TRANSFERS
Revenue from Bond Funds
State Issue 2
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from Other Funds
Total Source
Total Revenues

$
23,404,867
_____________
$
23,404,867

$

22,907,411
_____________
$
22,907,411

$

25,197,004
_____________
$
25,197,004

25,448,974
____________
$
25,448,974

$
1,519,687
_____________
$
1,519,687

$
364,317
_____________
$
364,317

$

754,555
_____________
$
754,555

$

$

293,497
0
_____________
$
293,497

$

371,381
0
_____________
$
371,381

$

325,000
0
_____________
$
325,000

$

325,000
0
____________
$
325,000

$

8,783
0
_____________
$
8,783

$

97,908
0
_____________
$
97,908

$

0
0
_____________
$
0

$

0
0
____________
$
0

$
12,050,000
_____________
$
12,050,000
_____________
$
37,276,834

$

$

$

12,650,000
_____________
$
12,650,000
_____________
$
36,391,017

1365

13,750,000
_____________
$
13,750,000
_____________
$
40,026,559

$

200,000
____________
$
200,000

13,500,000
____________
$
13,500,000
____________
$
39,473,974

The City Record

64

1999
ACTUAL
EXPENDITURES
II Other Operating Costs

$
36,590,983
_____________
Total Expenditures
$
36,590,983
_____________
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
685,851

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

3,021,595
_____________
$
3,707,446
_____________
_____________

June 20, 2001

2000
ACTUAL

$

38,584,776
_____________
$
38,584,776
_____________

2001
BUDGET

$

40,358,441
_____________
$
40,358,441
_____________

(2,193,759)

3,707,446
_____________
$
1,513,687
_____________
_____________

2002
TAX BUDGET

$

39,778,519
____________
$
39,778,519
____________

(331,882)

(304,545)

1,513,687
_____________
$
1,181,805
_____________
_____________

1,181,805
____________
$
877,260
____________
____________

$

STADIUM BOND FUND
REVENUES
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Proceeds from Sale of Debt
Revenue Transfers
Interest Income

$

0
20,000,000
895,000
5,000
_____________
$
20,900,000

$

0
0
0
0
_____________
$
0

$

0
0
0
0
_____________
$
0

0
0
0
0
____________
$
0

$
0
_____________
$
0

$

$

Total Source

$
0
_____________
$
0

Total Revenues

_____________
$
20,900,000

_____________
$
0

$

$

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________

$

$

$

$

Total Source
REVENUE TRANSFERS
Revenue from Bond Funds

EXPENDITURES
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

20,900,000
_____________
$
20,900,000
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

0

4,583
_____________
$
4,583
_____________
_____________

0

4,583
_____________
$
4,583
_____________
_____________

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
0

0

4,583
_____________
$
4,583
_____________
_____________

0
____________
$
0

$

____________
0

0
____________
$
0
____________

0

4,583
____________
$
4,583
____________
____________

SUBORDINATED INCOME TAX BOND FUND
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Principal Payment
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from Other Funds
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$

28,804
0
_____________
$
28,804

$

39,743
0
_____________
$
39,743

$

0
0
_____________
$
0

0
0
____________
$
0

$
4,211,766
_____________
$
4,211,766
_____________
$
4,240,570

$
4,307,449
_____________
$
4,307,449
_____________
$
4,347,192

$

4,700,000
_____________
$
4,700,000
_____________
$
4,700,000

$

$
3,965,290
_____________
$
3,965,290
_____________

$
4,713,290
_____________
$
4,713,290
_____________

$

$

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures

275,280

(366,097)

1366

4,700,000
_____________
$
4,700,000
_____________

0

$

4,700,000
____________
$
4,700,000
____________
$
4,700,000

4,700,000
____________
$
4,700,000
____________

0

The City Record

June 20, 2001

1999
ACTUAL
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

1,218,044
_____________
$
1,493,324
_____________
_____________

65

2000
ACTUAL

1,493,324
_____________
$
1,127,227
_____________
_____________

2001
BUDGET

1,127,227
_____________
$
1,127,227
_____________
_____________

2002
TAX BUDGET

1,127,227
____________
$
1,127,227
____________
____________

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
UTILITIES GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Vending Machine Concession
$
0
_____________
Total Source
$
0
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Interest Income
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues

$
2,766
_____________
$
2,766

$

2,830
_____________
$
2,830

$

2,830
____________
$
2,830

$

11,186
_____________
$
11,186

$
12,231
_____________
$
12,231

$

13,553
_____________
$
13,553

$

$
1,972,022
_____________
$
1,972,022
_____________
$
1,983,208

$
3,043,335
_____________
$
3,043,335
_____________
$
3,058,332

$

2,940,657
_____________
$
2,940,657
_____________
$
2,957,040

$

2,940,657
____________
$
2,940,657
____________
$
2,957,040

$

785,159
262,000
_____________
$
1,047,159

$

$

$

13,553
____________
$
13,553

UTILITIES ADMINISTRATION
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Division

$

671,755
224,515
_____________
$
896,270

$

741,525
380,011
_____________
$
1,121,536

811,999
270,784
____________
$
1,082,783

UTILITIES FISCAL CONTROL
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Division
Total Expenditures

$

1,390,142
108,150
_____________
$
1,498,292
_____________
$
2,394,562
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

(411,354)
3,416

712,052
_____________
$
304,114
_____________
_____________

$

1,524,359
115,803
_____________
$
1,640,162
_____________
$
2,761,698
_____________

1,759,481
150,400
_____________
$
1,909,881
_____________
$
2,957,040
_____________

1,830,122
154,293
____________
$
1,984,415
____________
$
3,067,198
____________

$

$

$

296,634
1,460

304,114
_____________
$
602,207
_____________
_____________

0
0

(110,158)
0

602,207
_____________
$
602,207
_____________
_____________

602,207
____________
$
492,049
____________
____________

$

RADIO COMMUNICATION
REVENUES
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Interest Income
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$
0
_____________
$
0

$
20,756
_____________
$
20,756

$

30,828
_____________
$
30,828

30,828
____________
$
30,828

$
2,139,690
_____________
$
2,139,690
_____________
$
2,139,690

$
975,485
_____________
$
975,485
_____________
$
996,241

$

1,967,225
_____________
$
1,967,225
_____________
$
1,998,053

$

$

$

$

$

68,477
1,718,605
_____________
$
1,787,082
_____________

36,109
1,582,928
_____________
$
1,619,038
_____________

1367

38,307
1,959,746
_____________
$
1,998,053
_____________

1,698,101
____________
$
1,698,101
____________
$
1,728,929

39,535
2,018,995
____________
$
2,058,530
____________

The City Record

66

1999
ACTUAL
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

352,608
0

99,790
_____________
$
452,398
_____________
_____________

June 20, 2001

2000
ACTUAL

$

(622,797)
500,000

452,398
_____________
$
329,601
_____________
_____________

2001
BUDGET

$

0
0

2002
TAX BUDGET

$

(329,601)
0

329,601
_____________
$
329,601
_____________
_____________

329,601
____________
$
0
____________
____________

DIVISION OF WATER
WATER GENERAL OPERATIONS
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Water Sales
$ 195,620,165
Water-Other Operating Revenues
0
_____________
Total Source
$ 195,620,165

$ 201,419,151
0
_____________
$ 201,419,151

$

205,500,000
0
_____________
$ 205,500,000

$

MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Interest Income

$

Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$
10,435,108
_____________
$
10,435,108
_____________
$ 206,055,273

$

18,147,536
_____________
$
18,147,536
_____________
$ 219,566,687

$

27,788,000
_____________
$
27,788,000
_____________
$ 233,288,000

29,177,400
____________
$
29,177,400
____________
$
244,952,400

$

$

$

54,633,585
119,372,018
_____________
$ 174,005,603
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

215,775,000
0
____________
$
215,775,000

32,049,670
0

49,643,664
_____________
$
81,693,334
_____________
_____________

56,698,873
152,653,646
_____________
$ 209,352,519
_____________

$

58,225,751
199,485,830
_____________
$ 257,711,581
_____________

61,586,524
215,740,723
____________
$
277,327,247
____________

$

$ (24,423,581)
0

$

95,929,389
_____________
$
71,505,808
_____________
_____________

71,505,808
____________
$
39,130,961
____________
____________

10,214,168
4,021,887

81,693,334
_____________
$
95,929,389
_____________
_____________

(32,374,847)
0

DIVISION OF WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
WATER POLLUTION GENERAL OPERATIONS
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Water Pollution Control Sales
$
13,691,339
_____________
Total Source
$
13,691,339

$

18,091,578
_____________
$
18,091,578

$

19,327,670
_____________
$
19,327,670

20,294,054
____________
$
20,294,054

MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Sale of City Assets
Interest Income

$

0
904,973
_____________
$
904,973
_____________
$
14,596,312

$

0
1,500,905
_____________
$
1,500,905
_____________
$
19,592,483

$

0
1,400,000
_____________
$
1,400,000
_____________
$
20,727,670

$

$

$

6,659,547
13,555,560
_____________
$
20,215,107
_____________

$

7,668,939
15,253,034
_____________
$
22,921,973
_____________

$

$

$

$

Total Source
Total Revenues

EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

5,989,747
9,165,831
_____________
$
15,155,578
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications

(559,266)
0

1368

(622,624)
117,714

(2,194,303)
0

$

0
1,470,000
____________
$
1,470,000
____________
$
21,764,054

8,029,723
15,425,134
____________
$
23,454,857
____________

(1,690,803)
0

The City Record

June 20, 2001

1999
ACTUAL
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance

8,092,443
_____________
$
7,533,177
_____________
_____________

Ending Balance

67

2000
ACTUAL

7,533,177
_____________
$
7,028,267
_____________
_____________

2001
BUDGET

7,028,267
_____________
$
4,833,964
_____________
_____________

2002
TAX BUDGET

4,833,964
____________
$
3,143,161
____________
____________

CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER
CLEVELAND PUBLIC POWER GENERAL OPERATIONS
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
C.P.P. Sales
$ 126,735,188
_____________
Total Source
$ 126,735,188
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

Ending Balance

$

140,695,529
_____________
$ 140,695,529

$

144,732,320
____________
$
144,732,320

$

$

584,866
1,574,700
_____________
$
2,159,566
_____________
$ 128,894,754

$

0
2,497,915
_____________
$
2,497,915
_____________
$ 136,924,300

$

0
2,078,069
_____________
$
2,078,069
_____________
$ 142,773,598

0
2,138,333
____________
$
2,138,333
____________
$
146,870,653

$

$

21,708,623
109,481,927
_____________
$ 131,190,551
_____________

$

24,373,398
118,400,200
_____________
$ 142,773,598
_____________

$

$

$

$

21,578,802
104,788,688
_____________
$ 126,367,490
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance

$ 134,426,385
_____________
$ 134,426,385

2,527,264
1,664,139

20,587,993
_____________
$
24,779,396
_____________
_____________

5,733,749
673,070

24,779,396
_____________
$
31,186,215
_____________
_____________

0
0

25,334,063
121,536,590
____________
$
146,870,653
____________

0
0

31,186,215
_____________
$
31,186,215
_____________
_____________

31,186,215
____________
$
31,186,215
____________
____________

$

767,853
_____________
$
767,853

$

2,379,200
_____________
$
2,379,200

$

$

DEPARTMENT OF PORT CONTROL
AIRPORT GENERAL OPERATIONS
REVENUES
INTERGOVERNMENTAL REVENUE
Grant Revenue
Total Source

$
0
_____________
$
0

SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICES
Charges for Service
$
Airport Landing Fees
Airport Space Rentals
Airport Ground Rentals
Airport Concession Revenue
Airport Utility Sales
Airport Customs Fees

2,379,200
____________
$
2,379,200

2,553,928
15,767,501
11,182,870
8,331,946
13,068,644
2,194,205
347,221
_____________
$
53,446,315

$

13,077
32,491,965
13,893,158
12,065,538
21,252,401
3,554,764
643,965
_____________
$
83,914,868

$

13,588
34,225,393
14,634,349
12,709,228
22,386,391
3,744,409
678,321
_____________
$
88,391,679

13,588
37,372,920
14,634,349
12,709,228
22,386,391
3,744,409
678,321
____________
$
91,539,206

$

0
0
5,074,262
0
3,744,401
_____________
$
8,818,663

$

0
0
3,247,066
0
2,130,601
_____________
$
5,377,667

$

0
0
4,520,705
0
3,033,255
_____________
$
7,553,960

$

EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Damaged City Property Reimbursement

$

$

$

$

EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Total Source

$

Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Sales of Capital Plant
Sale of City Assets
Miscellaneous Revenue
Small Claims
Interest Income
Total Source

Total Revenues

8,124

_____________
8,124
_____________
$
62,273,102

107,529

_____________
107,529
_____________
$
90,167,917

$

1369

297,402

_____________
297,402
_____________
$
98,622,241

$

0
0
4,520,705
0
3,033,255
____________
$
7,553,960

297,402

____________
297,402
____________
$
101,769,768

$

The City Record

68

1999
ACTUAL
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$

16,349,608
59,269,207
_____________
$
75,618,815
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$ (13,345,713)
Decertifications
3,805,091
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

9,779,924
_____________
$
239,301
_____________
_____________

June 20, 2001

2000
ACTUAL

2001
BUDGET

2002
TAX BUDGET

$

18,048,218
74,769,975
_____________
$
92,818,193
_____________

$

19,539,315
79,082,926
_____________
$
98,622,241
_____________

$

$ (2,650,276)
2,464,590

$

$

239,301
_____________
$
53,615
_____________
_____________

53,615
_____________
$
53,615
_____________
_____________

53,615
____________
$
53,615
____________
____________

$

0
0

20,473,994
81,295,774
____________
$
101,769,768
____________

0
0

AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND
REVENUES
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$

0
12,293
_____________
$
12,293
_____________
$
12,293

$

0
0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
0

$

0
60,000
_____________
$
60,000
_____________
$
60,000

0
60,000
____________
$
60,000
____________
$
60,000

$
262,785
_____________
$
262,785
_____________

$
13,872
_____________
$
13,872
_____________

$

60,000
_____________
$
60,000
_____________

$

$

$

$

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

(250,492)
356,725

128,802
_____________
$
235,035
_____________
_____________

(13,872)
0

235,035
_____________
$
221,163
_____________
_____________

0
0

60,000
____________
$
60,000
____________

0
0

221,163
_____________
$
221,163
_____________
_____________

221,163
____________
$
221,163
____________
____________

DIVISION OF CEMETERIES
CEMETERIES GENERAL OPERATIONS
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICES
Cemetery Fees
$
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Sale of City Assets
Interest Income
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from Other Funds
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

1,413,788
_____________
$
1,413,788

$
2,167,669
_____________
$
2,167,669

$

1,785,347
_____________
$
1,785,347

$

$

0
462,342
_____________
$
462,342
_____________

$

0
256,898
_____________
$
256,898
_____________

$

0
447,306
_____________
$
447,306
_____________

$

0
447,306
____________
$
447,306
____________

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
1,876,130

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
2,424,566

$

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
$
2,232,653

$

0
____________
$
0
____________
$
2,232,653

$

$

$

$

1,373,773
469,453
_____________
$
1,843,226
_____________

1,597,614
601,961
_____________
$
2,199,576
_____________

1370

1,674,327
558,326
_____________
$
2,232,653
_____________

1,785,347
____________
$
1,785,347

1,738,342
585,325
____________
$
2,323,667
____________

The City Record

June 20, 2001

1999
ACTUAL
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

32,904
39,700

793,460
_____________
$
866,064
_____________
_____________

69

2000
ACTUAL

$

224,990
569

866,064
_____________
$
1,091,623
_____________
_____________

2001
BUDGET

$

0
0

2002
TAX BUDGET

$

(91,014)
0

1,091,623
_____________
$
1,091,623
_____________
_____________

1,091,623
____________
$
1,000,609
____________
____________

GOLF COURSES
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICES
Charges for Service
$
Concession Revenue
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
Total Revenues

1,385,949
744,573
_____________
$
2,130,522

$

1,285,192
683,213
_____________
$
1,968,405
0

$

1,512,078
808,580
_____________
$
2,320,658

$

1,512,078
808,580
____________
$
2,320,658

$

9,310
67,607
_____________
$
76,917
_____________
$
2,207,439

$

49,721
41,118
_____________
$
90,839
_____________
$
2,059,243

$

99,178
82,017
_____________
$
181,195
_____________
$
2,501,853

$

99,178
82,017
____________
$
181,195
____________
$
2,501,853

$

$

838,754
1,384,730
_____________
$
2,223,485
_____________

$

1,027,733
1,474,121
_____________
$
2,501,854
_____________

$

$

$

$

GOLF COURSES
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

887,581
1,106,574
_____________
$
1,994,155
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

213,284
110,450

1,365,193
_____________
$
1,688,927
_____________
_____________

(164,242)
1,490

1,688,927
_____________
$
1,526,175
_____________
_____________

(1)
0

1,061,682
1,512,588
____________
$
2,574,270
____________

(72,417)
0

1,526,175
_____________
$
1,526,174
_____________
_____________

1,526,174
____________
$
1,453,757
____________
____________

$
507,001
_____________
$
507,001

$

456,533
_____________
$
456,533

$

$

MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS
REVENUES
LOCAL TAXES
Parking Tax
Total Source

$
305,304
_____________
$
305,304

SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICES
Charges for Service
$
Concession Revenue
Rental of City Property
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
REVENUE TRANSFERS
Revenue from General Fund
Revenue from Bond Funds
Total Source

456,533
____________
$
456,533

5,021,350
0
180,000
_____________
$
5,201,350

$

4,740,958
0
180,000
_____________
$
4,920,958

$

4,169,786
0
261,327
_____________
$
4,431,113

4,169,786
0
261,327
____________
$
4,431,113

$

0
776,515
_____________
$
776,515

$

11,585
895,653
_____________
$
907,238

$

10,436
806,493
_____________
$
816,929

$

10,436
806,493
____________
$
816,929

$

$

$

$

0
1,366,669
_____________
$
1,366,669

0
2,077,189
_____________
$
2,077,189

1371

0
1,870,420
_____________
$
1,870,420

0
1,870,420
____________
$
1,870,420

The City Record

70

1999
ACTUAL
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Damaged City Property Reimbursement
Expenditure Recoveries

June 20, 2001

2000
ACTUAL

Total Source

3,746
138,528
_____________
$
142,274

1,104
772,685
_____________
$
773,789

995
695,769
_____________
$
696,764

Total Revenues

_____________
$
7,792,112

_____________
$
9,186,175

$

$

$

749,888
7,314,241
_____________
$
8,064,129
_____________

$

886,159
7,385,600
_____________
$
8,271,759
_____________

$

$

$

$

652,210
7,382,373
_____________
$
8,034,583
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

(242,471)
48,700

1,849,281
_____________
$
1,655,510
_____________
_____________

1,122,046
1,594

1,655,510
_____________
$
2,779,150
_____________
_____________

$

2002
TAX BUDGET

$

EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs

$

2001
BUDGET

_____________
8,271,759

0
0

$

995
695,769
____________
$
696,764

$

____________
8,271,759

917,621
7,441,818
____________
$
8,359,439
____________

(87,680)
0

2,779,150
_____________
$
2,779,150
_____________
_____________

2,779,150
____________
$
2,691,470
____________
____________

$
3,881,796
_____________
$
3,881,796

$

3,847,821
_____________
$
3,847,821

$

$

44
225,172
88,191
1,903,832
_____________
$
2,217,239

$

0
227,207
97,877
1,920,015
_____________
$
2,245,099

$

$

0
0
0
81,112
_____________
$
81,112

$

0
0
0
40,032
_____________
$
40,032

$

0
0
0
62,983
_____________
$
62,983

$

$

38,182
_____________
$
38,182

$
174,111
_____________
$
174,111

$
0
_____________
$
0

$

0
____________
$
0

$

0
345,608
_____________
$
345,608
_____________
$
6,092,526

$

3,623
360,436
_____________
$
364,059
_____________
$
6,677,237

$

5,644
561,443
_____________
$
567,087
_____________
$
6,722,990

$

5,644
561,443
____________
$
567,087
____________
$
6,722,990

$

$

2,063,515
4,036,821
_____________
$
6,100,336
_____________

$

2,092,844
3,685,146
_____________
$
5,777,990
_____________

$

$

$

$

CLEVELAND CONVENTION CENTER
REVENUES
LOCAL TAXES
Hotel Tax
Total Source

$
3,354,457
_____________
$
3,354,457

SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Charges for Service
$
0
Commissions
0
Rental of City Property
0
Convention Center Ticket Receipts
2,273,167
_____________
Total Source
$
2,273,167
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Sale of City Assets
Refunds
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from Other Funds
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Damaged City Property
Reimbursement
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

1,921,569
4,719,340
_____________
$
6,640,909
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications

(548,383)
196,292

1372

576,901
0

945,000
0

3,847,821
____________
$
3,847,821

0
227,207
97,877
1,920,015
____________
$
2,245,099

0
0
0
62,983
____________
$
62,983

2,155,476
3,962,417
____________
$
6,117,893
____________

605,097
0

The City Record

June 20, 2001

1999
ACTUAL
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

71

2000
ACTUAL

2001
BUDGET

2002
TAX BUDGET

447,091
_____________
$
95,000

95,000
_____________
$
671,901

671,901
_____________
$
1,616,901

1,616,901
____________
$
2,221,998

_____________
_____________

_____________
_____________

_____________
_____________

____________
____________

CLEVELAND WEST SIDE MARKET
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Rental of City Property
$
1,017,989
_____________
Total Source
$
1,017,989
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$
887,929
_____________
$
887,929

$

1,090,970
_____________
$
1,090,970

1,090,970
____________
$
1,090,970

$

48,578
28,724
_____________
$
77,302

$

8,148
16,083
_____________
$
24,231

$

8,591
17,061
_____________
$
25,652

$

$
20,124
_____________
$
20,124
_____________
$
1,115,415

$
15,531
_____________
$
15,531
_____________
$
927,691

$

24,773
_____________
$
24,773
_____________
$
1,141,395

$

24,773
____________
$
24,773
____________
$
1,141,395

$

$

$

325,856
697,674
_____________
$
1,023,530
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

91,885
27,926

353,336
_____________
$
473,147
_____________
_____________

$

8,591
17,061
____________
$
25,652

296,769
843,782
_____________
$
1,140,550
_____________

385,149
756,246
_____________
$
1,141,395
_____________

$

$

$

$

(212,859)
1,053

473,147
_____________
$
261,341
_____________
_____________

0
0

400,103
790,650
____________
$
1,190,753
____________

(49,358)
0

261,341
_____________
$
261,341
_____________
_____________

261,341
____________
$
211,983
____________
____________

$
54,653
_____________
$
54,653
_____________

$

89,528
_____________
$
89,528
_____________

$

89,528
____________
$
89,528
____________

4,892
_____________
$
4,892

0
_____________
$
0

0
____________
$
0

$

$

$

CLEVELAND EAST SIDE MARKET
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Charges for Services
$
98,000
_____________
Total Source
$
98,000
_____________
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Interest Income
0
_____________
Total Source
$
0
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$

98,000

$

30,650
20,144
_____________
$
50,794
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications

47,206
18,299

59,545

$

89,528

27,159
30,828
_____________
$
57,987
_____________

$

55,483
42,060
_____________
$
97,543
_____________

$

$

$

$

1373

1,558
0

(8,015)
0

89,528

57,742
43,297
____________
$
101,039
____________

(11,511)
0

The City Record

72

1999
ACTUAL
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

216,495
_____________
$
282,000
_____________
_____________

June 20, 2001

2000
ACTUAL

282,000
_____________
$
283,558
_____________
_____________

2001
BUDGET

2002
TAX BUDGET

283,558
_____________
$
275,543
_____________
_____________

275,543
____________
$
264,032
____________
____________

INTERNAL SERVICE FUND GROUP
TELEPHONE EXCHANGE
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Commissions
$
297,103
_____________
Total Source
$
297,103

$
321,066
_____________
$
321,066

$

303,695
_____________
$
303,695

$

MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Interest Income

$

Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

253
_____________
$
253

$

0
_____________
$
0

0
____________
$
0

$
3,086,717
_____________
$
3,086,717
_____________
$
3,383,820

$
4,572,276
_____________
$
4,572,276
_____________
$
4,893,595

$

4,253,193
_____________
$
4,253,193
_____________
$
4,556,888

$

4,415,362
____________
$
4,415,362
____________
$
4,719,057

$

$

287,063
4,727,494
_____________
$
5,014,558
_____________

$

409,957
4,146,931
_____________
$
4,556,888
_____________

$

$

$

$

235,892
3,316,612
_____________
$
3,552,504
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

303,695
____________
$
303,695

(168,684)
0

239,145
_____________
$
70,461
_____________
_____________

(120,963)
50,502

70,461
_____________
$
0
_____________
_____________

0
0

426,659
4,292,398
____________
$
4,719,057
____________

0
0

0
_____________
$
0
_____________
_____________

0
____________
$
0
____________
____________

INFORMATION SYSTEMS SERVICES
REVENUES
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Subsidies from other funds
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$

0
1,530
_____________
$
1,530

$

14,109
0
_____________
$
14,109

$

17,846
0
_____________
$
17,846

$

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

$
2,407,102
_____________
$
2,407,102
_____________
$
2,408,632

$
1,492,817
_____________
$
1,492,817
_____________
$
1,506,926

$

2,529,692
_____________
$
2,529,692
_____________
$
2,547,538

$

$

$

$

$

1,310,112
1,229,863
_____________
$
2,539,975
_____________

1,298,996
584,520
_____________
$
1,883,516
_____________

1374

1,688,548
858,990
_____________
$
2,547,538
_____________

17,846
0
____________
$
17,846

0
____________
$
0

2,630,624
____________
$
2,630,624
____________
$
2,648,470

1,756,947
896,366
____________
$
2,653,313
____________

The City Record

June 20, 2001

1999
ACTUAL
Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

(131,343)
112,044

19,299
_____________
$
0
_____________
_____________

73

2000
ACTUAL

$

(376,590)
381,433

0
_____________
$
4,843
_____________
_____________

2001
BUDGET

$

0
0

2002
TAX BUDGET

$

(4,843)
0

4,843
_____________
$
4,843
_____________
_____________

4,843
____________
$
0
____________
____________

$

MOTOR VEHICLE MAINTENANCE
REVENUES
SALES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE
Miscellaneous City Sales
$
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Sale of City Assets
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
TRANSFERS IN
Recovery of past deficits
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Damaged City Property
Reimbursement
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

0
_____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

$
0
_____________
$
0

0
____________
$
0

$

0
69,455
137,809
_____________
$
207,264

$

0
49,926
49,427
_____________
$
99,353

$

0
110,468
109,366
_____________
$
219,834

$

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

$

0
13,771,080
_____________
$
13,771,080
_____________
$
13,978,344

$

0
14,873,756
_____________
$
14,873,756
_____________
$
14,973,109

$

0
17,352,024
_____________
$
17,352,024
_____________
$
17,571,858

$

$

$

5,074,296
11,978,757
_____________
$
17,053,053
_____________

$

5,457,289
12,114,569
_____________
$
17,571,858
_____________

$

5,700,657
12,918,273
____________
$
18,618,930
____________

$ (2,079,944)
206,896

$

$

1,947,472
_____________
$
74,424
_____________
_____________

74,424
_____________
$
74,424
_____________
_____________

74,424
____________
$
0
____________
____________

$

4,163,185
10,167,271
_____________
$
14,330,456
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

(352,112)
1,017,463

1,282,121
_____________
$
1,947,472
_____________
_____________

0
0

0
110,468
109,366
____________
$
219,834

0
____________
$
0

0
18,324,672
____________
$
18,324,672
____________
$
18,544,506

(74,424)
0

PRINTING AND REPRODUCTION
REVENUES
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Interest Income
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues

$

0
10,881
_____________
$
10,881

$

1,390
10,601
_____________
$
11,991

$

1,237
9,437
_____________
$
10,674

1,237
9,437
____________
$
10,674

$
1,028,758
_____________
$
1,028,758
_____________
$
1,039,639

$
1,284,712
_____________
$
1,284,712
_____________
$
1,296,703

$

$

1375

1,250,455
_____________
$
1,250,455
_____________
$
1,261,129

1,122,729
____________
$
1,122,729
____________
$
1,133,403

The City Record

74

1999
ACTUAL
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$

521,468
609,569
_____________
$
1,131,037
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

(91,398)
68,420

89,901
_____________
$
66,923
_____________
_____________

June 20, 2001

2000
ACTUAL

$

2001
BUDGET

2002
TAX BUDGET

500,792
697,009
_____________
$
1,197,802
_____________

$

611,673
649,456
_____________
$
1,261,129
_____________

$

$

$

$

98,901
14,564

66,923
_____________
$
180,388
_____________
_____________

0
0

639,383
674,408
____________
$
1,313,791
____________

(180,388)
0

180,388
_____________
$
180,388
_____________
_____________

180,388
____________
$
0
____________
____________

CITY STOREROOM AND WAREHOUSE
REVENUES
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$
754,127
_____________
$
754,127
_____________
$
754,127

$
655,359
_____________
$
655,359
_____________
$
655,359

$

776,062
_____________
$
776,062
_____________
$
776,062

$

$

$

48,330
678,835
_____________
$
727,165
_____________

$

60,358
715,705
_____________
$
776,063
_____________

$

$

$

$

54,614
640,542
_____________
$
695,156
_____________

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
$
Decertifications
UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

58,971
150

17,690
_____________
$
76,810
_____________
_____________

(71,806)
0

76,810
_____________
$
5,004
_____________
_____________

(1)
0

799,571
____________
$
799,571
____________
$
799,571

63,819
740,755
____________
$
804,574
____________

(5,003)
0

5,004
_____________
$
5,003
_____________
_____________

5,003
____________
$
0
____________
____________

$

CENTRAL COLLECTION AGENCY
REVENUES
LOCAL TAXES
City Income Tax
Total Source
MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE
Miscellaneous Revenue
Total Source
EXPENDITURE RECOVERIES
Expenditure Recoveries
Total Source
Total Revenues
EXPENDITURES
I Personnel Costs
II Other Operating Costs
Total Expenditures

$
3,920,000
_____________
$
3,920,000

$
4,452,040
_____________
$
4,452,040

$

5,195,207
_____________
$
5,195,207

5,195,207
____________
$
5,195,207

$

7,277
_____________
$
7,277

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

0
_____________
$
0

$

0
____________
$
0

$
1,682,747
_____________
$
1,682,747
_____________
$
5,610,024

$
1,746,723
_____________
$
1,746,723
_____________
$
6,198,763

$

2,108,010
_____________
$
2,108,010
_____________
$
7,303,217

$

$

$

$

$

3,197,793
2,530,587
_____________
$
5,728,380
_____________

3,520,253
2,106,665
_____________
$
5,626,918
_____________

1376

4,476,767
2,643,112
_____________
$
7,119,879
_____________

2,108,010
____________
$
2,108,010
____________
$
7,303,217

4,662,104
2,735,200
____________
$
7,397,304
____________

The City Record

June 20, 2001

1999
ACTUAL

75

2000
ACTUAL

2001
BUDGET

2002
TAX BUDGET

Excess (deficiency) of Revenues over
Expenditures
Decertifications

$

(118,356)
254,156

$

571,845
0

$

183,338
0

$

(94,087)
0

UNENCUMBERED CASH
Beginning Balance
Ending Balance

1,145,200
_____________

1,281,000
_____________

$
1,281,000
_____________
_____________

$
1,852,845
_____________
_____________

1,852,845
_____________
$

2,036,183
_____________
_____________

2,036,183
____________
$

1,942,096
____________
____________

STATEMENT OF PERMANENT IMPROVEMENT
Estimated Cost

Amount to be

of Permanent

Budgeted During

Improvement

Current Year

Description

Transportation Network
------------------------------------------------------------

500,000

500,000

-------------------

-------------------

-----------------------------

16,000,000

16,000,000

Restricted Income Tax

-------------------

-------------------

-----------------------------

11,500,000

11,500,000

Restricted Income Tax

-------------------

-------------------

-----------------------------

1,500,000

1,500,000

Restricted Income Tax

-------------------

-------------------

-----------------------------

29,500,000

29,500,000

-------------------------------------

-------------------------------------

Vehicle Purchases & Leases
-----------------------------------------------------------Major Equipment/Non-Vehicular Purchase & Lease
-----------------------------------------------------------Public Buildings & Facilities
-----------------------------------------------------------TOTAL
------------------------------------------------------------

Name of Paying Fund

Restricted Income Tax

STATEMENT OF AMOUNTS REQUIRED FOR
PAYMENT OF FINAL JUDGMENTS
Description of Judgment

Amount of
Judgment

Fund Paying
Judgment

Employment
-----------------------------------------------------------Litigation
------------------------------------------------------------

70,000
------------------750,000
-------------------

General Fund
------------------Enterprise Fund
-------------------

TOTAL
------------------------------------------------------------

820,000
-------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------CITY OF CLEVELAND SINKING FUND COMMISSION
FUTURE DEBT SERVICE REQUIREMENTS
UNVOTED TAX SUPPORTED OBLIGATIONS

PURPOSE

MONTH

ISSUE

MATURITY

INTEREST

12/31/01

DUE

DATE

DATE

RATE

BALANCE

PRINCIPAL

2002

TOTAL

INTEREST

DUE

AUDITORIUM IMP.

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

120,000

60,000

7,200

67,200

BREAKWALL

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

160,000

80,000

9,600

89,600

BREAKWALL

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

100,000

50,000

6,000

56,000

BRIDGE IMP.

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

40,000

20,000

2,400

22,400

BRIDGE IMPROVEMENTS
BRIDGE & ROADWAY

JUNE*/DEC.
APR/OCT

1976

2003

7.000%

120,000

60,000

6,300

66,300

1991A

2008

VAR

635,000

635,000

40,640

675,640
924,365

BRIDGE & ROADWAY

APR/OCT

1998

2015

VAR

9,475,000

510,000

414,365

BRIDGE & ROADWAY

FEB./AUG.

1997

2014

VAR

8,575,000

475,000

470,463

945,463

BRIDGE & ROADWAY

JAN/JUL

1992

2009

VAR

1,245,000

490,000

75,210

565,210

MAR/SEP

1993

2009

VAR

5,425,000

565,000

280,834

845,834

BRIDGES & ROADS

1377

The City Record

76
PURPOSE

June 20, 2001

MONTH

ISSUE

MATURITY

INTEREST

12/31/01

DUE

DATE

DATE

RATE

BALANCE

PRINCIPAL

2002

TOTAL

INTEREST

DUE

BRIDGES & ROADS

MAY/NOV.

1994

2012

VAR

5,320,000

1,215,000

319,435

BRIDGES & ROADS

MAY/NOV.

1999

2016

VAR

14,080,000

665,000

709,512

1,374,512

BRIDGES & ROADS

MAR/SEP

1996

2013

VAR

14,020,000

880,000

731,931

1,611,931

BUILDINGS & FACILITIES

MAY/NOV.

1994

2018

VAR

1,265,000

290,000

75,955

365,955

CEMETERY IMPROVEMENT

APR/OCT

1998

2018

VAR

1,685,000

70,000

74,669

144,669

CEMETERY IMPROVEMENT

1,534,435

JAN/JUL

1992

2002

VAR

220,000

220,000

13,090

233,090

CENTRAL POLICE HQ

JUNE*/DEC.

1976

2002

7.000%

265,000

265,000

9,275

274,275

CITY’S PORTION CTS.

JUNE*/DEC.

1976

2003

7.000%

470,000

235,000

24,675

259,675

CITY’S PORTION CTS.

JUNE*/DEC.

1976

2003

7.000%

280,000

140,000

14,700

154,700

CONVENTION CENTER

JUNE/DEC.

1984

2003

6.000%

350,000

175,000

21,000

196,000

CONVENTION CENTER

MAR/SEP

1996

2015

VAR

1,650,000

85,000

87,021

172,021

FIRE APPARATUS

MAY/NOV.

1999

2009

VAR

700,000

75,000

32,378

107,378

FIRE STATION

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

80,000

40,000

4,800

44,800

FREEWAY

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

100,000

50,000

6,000

56,000

JUDGMENT BONDS

APR/OCT

1991C

2011

VAR

610,000

610,000

35,990

645,990

NEIGHBORHOOD DEV.

MAR/SEP

1996

2014

VAR

850,000

50,000

44,612

94,612

PARK ACQUISITION

FEB./AUG.

1977

2003

6.000%

20,000

10,000

1,200

11,200

PARKING

FEB./AUG.

1977

2002

6.000%

415,000

415,000

24,900

439,900

PARKS & RECREATION

APR/OCT

1998

2018

VAR

3,240,000

135,000

143,576

278,576

PARKS & RECREATION

FEB./AUG.

1997

2017

VAR

2,605,000

110,000

141,232

251,232

PARKS & RECREATION

MAY/NOV.

1994

2018

VAR

810,000

185,000

48,635

233,635

PARKS & RECREATION

MAY/NOV.

1999

2019

VAR

3,195,000

115,000

163,580

278,580

PARKS & RECREATION

MAR/SEP

1996

2015

VAR

4,135,000

210,000

218,081

428,081

PUBLIC FACILITIES

APR/OCT

1998

2018

VAR

6,215,000

255,000

275,486

530,486

PUBLIC FACILITIES

FEB./AUG.

1997

2017

VAR

9,615,000

395,000

521,283

916,283

PUBLIC FACILITIES

JAN/JUL

1992

2012

VAR

515,000

250,000

31,040

281,040

PUBLIC FACILITIES

MAR/SEP

1993

2013

VAR

6,945,000

435,000

365,066

800,066

PUBLIC FACILITIES

MAR/SEP

1996

2020

VAR

2,230,000

70,000

119,460

189,460

PUBLIC FACILITIES

MAY/NOV.

1999

2019

VAR

4,295,000

155,000

219,864

374,864

PUBLIC FACILITIES

JUNE/DEC.

2000

2020

VAR

8,975,000

300,000

458,020

758,020

PUBLIC SERVICE

APR/OCT

1991A

2011

VAR

245,000

245,000

15,680

260,680

RECREATION FACILITIES

APR/OCT

1991A

2008

VAR

275,000

275,000

17,600

292,600

RECREATION FACILITIES

JAN/JUL

1992

2012

VAR

505,000

245,000

30,438

275,438

RECREATION FACILITIES

MAR/SEP

1993

2012

VAR

2,650,000

185,000

138,915

323,915

RECREATION FACILITIES

JUNE/DEC.

2000

2020

VAR

5,030,000

165,000

256,686

421,686

1991B

2011

VAR

1,160,000

1,160,000

74,240

1,234,240
52,975

REFUNDED CONVENTION CTR
REFUND BONDS (TAX) 1992

APR/OCT
JAN/JUL

1992

2002

VAR

50,000

50,000

2,975

RESIDNTL.& REDVLPMNT.

MAY/NOV.

1994

2018

VAR

130,000

30,000

7,805

37,805

RESIDENTIAL AREA IMP.

FEB./AUG

1997

2017

VAR

875,000

35,000

47,428

82,428

JAN/JUL

1992

2012

VAR

80,000

40,000

4,820

44,820

JUNE/DEC.

2000

2020

VAR

2,080,000

70,000

106,158

176,158
178,369

RESIDENT REDEVLOPMENT
RESIDENT DEVELOPMENT
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD

MAY/NOV.

1999

2019

VAR

2,020,000

75,000

103,369

RESIDENTIAL NEIGH.DEV.

APR/OCT

1998

2018

VAR

915,000

40,000

40,526

80,526

JUNE/DEC.

2000

2017

VAR

9,795,000

420,000

495,445

915,445

SERIES 1993 REFUNDING

MAR/SEP

1993

2011

VAR

78,540,000

7,200,000

4,077,840

11,277,840

SERIES 1996 REFUNDING

MAR/SEP

1996

2002

VAR

1,035,000

1,035,000

48,645

1,083,645

SERIES 1997 REFUNDING

FEB./AUG.

1997

2018

VAR

45,650,000

65,000

2,540,998

2,605,998

SERIES 1998 REFUNDING

APR/OCT

1998

2007

VAR

19,730,000

1,740,000

866,645

2,606,645

ROAD & BRIDGE IMP.

URBAN DEVELOPMENT

APR/OCT

1991A

2011

VAR

50,000

50,000

3,200

53,200

URBAN RENEWAL

MAR/SEP

1993

2013

VAR

1,515,000

95,000

79,629

174,629

293,380,000

24,270,000

Total

15,208,520 39,478,520

Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she hereby is directed to certify a copy of the resolution to the
County Auditor of said County.
Section 3. That this resolution is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its adoption and approval by the Mayor otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.
Adopted June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

1378

June 20, 2001
Res. No. 1100-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman and
Polensek.
An emergency resolution declaring this Council’s desire, interest
and commitment to work toward
establishing a permanent sister city
relationship with the city of Pula,
Istrian County, Republic of Croatia.
Whereas, the cities of Cleveland
and Pula, located in Istrian County,
Republic of Croatia, have expressed
interest in an active exchange of
cultural, business, educational and
governmental opportunities; and
Whereas, such exchange would
serve to support the development
and growth of both cities, as well
as to expand and enhance knowledge and understanding between
people of diverse cultures; and
Whereas, such a sister city relationship would serve to honor and
strengthen the rich Eastern European backgrounds and traditions of
many residents of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the leaders of Cleveland
and Pula have expressed an interest
of in working toward establishing a
permanent sister city relationship
between the cities, including working toward the establishment of an
Eastern European branch of studies
for Cleveland State University in the
area; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety in
that peace and understanding in the
world can only be assured through
a strengthening of relationships
among the world’s peoples, now,
therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland declares its desire,
intent and commitment to work
toward the establishment of a permanent sister city relationship with
the city of Pula, Istrian County,
Republic of Croatia.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

Res. No. 1101-01.
By Councilmen Lewis and Jones.
An emergency resolution opposing
the proposed Elective Alternative
Regulation Plan (“EARP”) rules
proposed by the PUCO, requesting
the PUCO to hold an additional public hearing at Cleveland City Hall
in the evening, and encouraging the
public to attend the public hearing
on June 22nd.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland is concerned that the
Staff of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (“PUCO”) has proposed
new
rules
allowing
SBC
Ameritech and other local exchange
companies in Ohio to elect an “off
the shelf” alternative regulation
plan that will allow such companies
to double the rates for some services

The City Record
like second and third phone lines
and basic Caller ID, and will allow
unlimited increases in rates for
packages of services that include
basic local telephone service, and
many other services that residential
consumers use everyday in their
homes, such as Call Waiting and
Call Forwarding, among many others, and that such increase would be
allowed without adequate notice to
consumers
or
any
oversight
or
approval by the PUCO; and
Whereas, the Council is concerned
that the PUCO is proposing to deregulate the prices of many phone services, and to allow Ameritech and
other phone companies to earn
excess profits without any controls,
even though there is no competition
in the residential telephone market
place, and no real choice for consumers; and
Whereas, this Council is deeply
concerned and disturbed that the
Chairman of the PUCO has stated
that telephone rates for every service except for a single basic service line in the home should be
allowed to increase as high as the
companies
want
to
raise
them,
because they are not essential services, and consumers can simply
choose not to buy these services,
despite the lack of any competitor
offering such services to consumers;
and
Whereas, the proposed elective
Alternative Regulation Plan rules
would allow SBC Ameritech to abandon its existing PUCO-approved, and
heavily negotiated Alternative Regulation Plan, which does not expire
until 2003, and to choose the new
“off the shelf” Elective Alternative
Regulation Plan (“EARP”), which
could
throw
thousands
of
low
income customers off of their lifeline discount program, and could
otherwise
diminish
or
eliminate
many other commitments Ameritech
has made to the PUCO and consumers; and
Whereas, the proposed new rules
are unlawful and unnecessary, and
would harm rather than help consumers; and
Whereas,
the
PUCO
just
announced local public hearings,
including one hearing in Cleveland
in the afternoon, at the Lausche
State Office Tower, 2nd Floor Auditorium, 615 Superior Avenue, in
downtown Cleveland, at 2:00 p.m. on
Friday, June 22nd, and they will
provide an opportunity for the public to make their concerns about the
PUCO’s
proposal known
to
the
PUCO Commissioners; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council opposes the approval by the PUCO of the
proposed Elective Alternative Regulation Plan (“EARP”) Rules in Case
Nos. 00-1532-TP-COI, 99-563-TP-COI,
and 99-998-TP-COI, and urges the
PUCO to withdraw or disapprove the
rules, and instead to initiate a proceeding to determine the best way
to bring about real competition in
the provision of local phone service,
while fully protecting residential
consumers from higher prices for
services, before any further deregulation of rates and services is permitted.
Section
2.
That
this
Council
believes
that
a
public
hearing
should also be held in the evening
in Cleveland, to accommodate more

1379

77
Cleveland-area citizens who cannot
attend a hearing during the work
day, and would welcome the PUCO
to hold such an evening hearing at
Cleveland City Hall in Council
Chambers, the site for numerous
PUCO public hearings in the past.
Section 3. That this Council urges
the citizens of Cleveland to attend
the public hearing in Cleveland to
voice their concerns about the proposed rules and their opposition to
allowing the phone company to
increase their rates without oversight or approval by the PUCO and
without any input from consumers.
Section 4. That upon approval, the
Clerk of City Council is hereby
directed to deliver a copy of this
Resolution to the Mayor, to the
City’s Law Director, and to the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
(“PUCO”), to be filed on the public
record in Case Nos. 00-1532-TP-COI,
99-563-TP-COI, and 99-998-TP-COI.
Section 5. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

Res. No. 1102-01.
By Councilmen Lewis, Jones and
White.
An emergency resolution declaring this Council’s support for the
mission of the Ohio Commission on
African-American
Males
(CAAM)
and inviting its representatives to
work actively with this Council on
issues of unemployment, health, education and criminal justice.
Whereas,
the
Commission
on
African-American
Males
(CAAM)
was established by State of Ohio
Executive Order 89-9, with such
Commission becoming a freestanding agency of the state government
in 1999; and
Whereas, the commission was created to serve the African-American
male
population
throughout
the
State of Ohio who are experiencing
problems or difficulties with the following four areas: unemployment;
criminal
justice;
education;
and
health; and
Whereas, the mission of CAAM is
to identify and promote, through collaborative
partnerships,
effective
public policy models that empower
African-American males to achieve
in healthy enterprising communities
by alleviating inequalities of economics, health, education and criminal justice; and
Whereas, this Council of the City
of Cleveland is supportive of the
mission of CAAM as they represent
the interests of many of our city’s
residents; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland supports the mission of the Ohio Commission on
African-American
Males
(CAAM)

78
and invites its representatives to
work actively with this Council,
through the Committee on Employment, Affirmative Action and Training, to assist residents of our city
with
issues
of
unemployment,
health, education and criminal justice.
Section 2. That the Clerk is hereby requested to transmit a copy of
this resolution to Governor Robert
Taft, State Representative John E.
Barnes, Jr. and Leon Adams, Interim Director of CAAM.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

Res. No. 1103-01.
By Councilman Willis.
An emergency resolution commending the efforts of the Cuyahoga County Board of Elections to
evaluate and improve voting procedures; encouraging the Board of
Elections to include a voter education component in any reforms to
the voting process; and urging federal, state and local legislatures to
assist in financing improved voting
technology.
Whereas, it is imperative in a
democracy that there be unqualified
confidence in election procedures
and voting systems; and
Whereas, it is also imperative that
the process of exercising one’s constitutionally protected right to vote
be as problem-free and voter-friendly as possible to effect an outcome
which is accurate and untainted;
and
Whereas, through passage of various resolutions, this Council has
expressed interest in ensuring the
integrity of the voting process by
urging the General Assembly of the
State of Ohio to abolish the “five
minute rule” which prohibits voters
from occupying a voting machine
for more than five minutes when
other voters are waiting to occupy
them, urging the prohibition of the
use of “butterfly” ballots in the State
of Ohio, and urging a state-wide
comprehensive voter education program; and
Whereas, this Council commends
the actions of the Cuyahoga County
Board of Elections in its desire to
improve
the
voting
process
by
replacing the current punch card
ballot system and evaluating various electronic voting machines; and
Whereas, it is the hope of this
Council that, in the event that the
Board of Elections is successful in
its mission to implement electronic
voting
technology
in
Cuyahoga
County, that a comprehensive voter
education program be implemented
to familiarize voters with the technology and other voting procedures;
and
Whereas, this Council encourages
federal,state and local legislatures
to assist the Board of Elections in
this undertaking, which is estimat-

The City Record
ed to cost approximately $20 million;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public
peace, property, health and safety;
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland commends the
efforts of the Cuyahoga County
Board of Elections in its evaluation
of improved voting technology and
procedures
and
encourages
the
Board of Elections to include a voter
education component in any reforms
to the voting process. This Council
further urges Congress and the Ohio
legislature to assist the Cuyahoga
County Board of Elections in financing its undertaking to implement
improved voting technology.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council is hereby requested to transmit
a copy of this resolution to Thomas
Jelepis, Director, Cuyahoga County
Board of Elections; Senators Michael
DeWine and George Voinovich; Governor Robert Taft; and the Cuyahoga County Commissioners.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

Res. No. 1180-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency resolution supporting the goals and objectives of
NABET/CWA Local 42 to ensure
safe, fair working conditions, to be
paid equitably for their work, and
to ensure accessible and affordable
health care coverage for their members.
Whereas, this Council of the City
of Cleveland, through passage of
numerous pieces of legislation, has
recognized the rights of all workers
to seek safe, fair working conditions
and to be paid equitably for their
work; and
Whereas, this Council, through
passage of numerous pieces of legislation and its actions, has demonstrated support for labor unions
within the City of Cleveland and
nationally; and
Whereas, NABET/CWA Local 42,
which represents technicians, engineers, producers, directors and writers at Channel 19/43, has attempted
to bargain a first contract with
Channel 19/43, without success, for
over one year; and
Whereas, this Council urges both
parties to work cooperatively and to
act within the bounds of the National Labor Relations Act to resolve
outstanding issues to ensure that all
workers are treated fairly and that
labor laws are properly and evenly
applied; and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure for the
immediate preservation of public

1380

June 20, 2001
peace, property, health or safety,
now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council of the
City of Cleveland supports the goals
and
objectives
of
NABET/CWA
Local 42 to ensure safe, fair working conditions, to be paid equitably
for their work, and to ensure accessible and affordable health care coverage for their members.
Section 2. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Res. No. 1181-01.
By Councilman Johnson.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership and
location of a D1, D2, D3 and D3A
Liquor
Permit
to
13120
Shaker
Square.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership and location of a
D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit
from Permit No. 5539557, Marino Inc.,
DBA Gateway Bar B Que, 3353 West
117th Street, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio
44113. Shia Shapiro Atty., to Permit
No. 8116737, Shuhei of Japan LLC,
13120
Shaker
Square,
Cleveland,
Ohio 44120; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperity, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the

June 20, 2001
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership and location of a
D1, D2, D3 and D3A Liquor Permit
from Permit No. 5539557, Marino Inc.,
DBA Gateway Bar B Que, 3353 West
117th Street, 1st Fl., Cleveland, Ohio
44113. Shia Shapiro Atty., to Permit
No. 8116737, Shuhei of Japan LLC,
13120
Shaker
Square,
Cleveland,
Ohio 44120 and requests the Director
of Liquor Control to set a hearing
for said application in accordance
with provisions of Section 4303.26 of
the Revised Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Res. No. 1182-01.
By Councilman Rybka.
An emergency resolution objecting to the transfer of ownership of
a C1 and C2 Liquor Permit to 6506
Fleet Avenue.
Whereas, Council has been notified by the Director of Liquor Control of an application for the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
2978678, G S Yun inc., DBA K & S
Food & Gift, 6506 Fleet Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 to Permit No.
6506 Fleet Avenue LLC, 6506 Fleet
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105; and
Whereas, the granting of this
application for a liquor permit to
this high crime area, which is
already saturated with other liquor
outlets, is contrary to the best interests of the entire community; and
Whereas, the applicant does not
qualify to be a permit holder and/or
has demonstrated that he has operated his liquor business in disregard
of the laws, regulations or local
ordinances of this state or any other
state; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought has not conformed
to the building, safety or health
requirements of the governing body
of this County or City; and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so arranged or
constructed that law enforcement
officers or agents of the Department
of Liquor Control are prevented reasonable access to the establishment;
and
Whereas, the place for which the
permit is sought is so located with
respect to the neighborhood that it
substantially interferes with public
decency, sobriety, peace or good
order; and
Whereas, this objection is based
on other legal grounds as set forth
in Revised Code Section 4303.292;
and
Whereas, this resolution constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate preservation of the public peace, prosperi-

The City Record
ty, safety and welfare pursuant to
Section 4303.26 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Council’s objection to said
permit must be received by the
Director of Liquor Control within
30 days of notification; now, therefore,
Be it resolved by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Council does hereby record its objection to the transfer of ownership of a C1 and C2
Liquor Permit from Permit No.
2978678, G S Yun inc., DBA K & S
Food & Gift, 6506 Fleet Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio 44105 to Permit No.
6506 Fleet Avenue LLC, 6506 Fleet
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105 and
requests the Director of Liquor Control to set a hearing for said application in accordance with provisions
of Section 4303.26 of the Revised
Code of Ohio.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
transmit two certified copies of this
resolution, together with two copies
of a letter of objection and two
copies of a letter requesting that the
hearing be held in Cleveland, Cuyahoga County.
Section 3. That this resolution is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its adoption and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Adopted June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 214-2000.
By Councilmen Dolan, Cimperman
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
execute an easement granting to Air
BP, a division of BP Exploration &
Oil, Inc. certain easement rights in
property located on Cleveland Hopkins International Airport and declaring said easement rights no
longer needed for public use; and
proferring certain representations
for purposes of the Trust Indenture
from the City of Cleveland to the
Chase Manhattan Trust Company,
National Association, as successor
trustee and authorizing the Director
of Port Control to apply to the bond
trustee for land release.
Whereas, Air BP, a division of BP
Exploration & Oil, Inc. has requested the Director of Port Control to
convey certain easement rights in
property located on Cleveland Hopkins International Airport; and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are no longer needed for
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined that an easement interest in the following described property is no longer needed for public
use:
British Petroleum Fuel Line Easement
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport, BP Fuel Line Easement.

1381

79
Beginning at Point No. 65 located
on the centerline of Five Points
Road 438.73 feet East of its intersection with the centerline of Cargo
Road as shown on the Airport Geometrics
Map,
prepared
for
the
Department of Port Control, City of
Cleveland, Ohio, Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport, by Wheeler
and Melena, Inc., May, 1988.
Thence South 23°-49'-18.93" East,
222.97 feet to the true point of beginning;
Thence South 32°-10'-58.42" West,
450.85 feet to a point;
Thence North 87°-27'-15.49" West,
37.42 feet to a point of tangency;
Thence around a curve to the left
through a central angle of 79( 36’
14.59” an arc distance of 30.12 feet,
a chord bearing of South 53°-51'48.49" West a distance of 27.76 to a
point of curvature;
Thence South 02°-27'-45.92" West,
57.19 feet to a point;
Thence 89°-49'-19.57" East, 52.39
feet to a point;
Thence North 32°-10'-58.42" East,
520.93 feet to a point;
Thence North 17°-26'-48.16" East,
303.56 feet to a point;
Thence North 33°-25'-08.35" East,
520.95 feet to a point;
Thence North 73°-57'-53.92" East,
74.61 feet to a point;
Thence North 32°-16'-47.29" East,
568.65 feet to a point;
Thence North 01°-26'-10.90" East,
279.25 feet to a point;
Thence North 61°-08'-27.04" East,
46.55 feet to a point;
Thence North 53°-38'-07.29" East,
42.39 feet to a point;
Thence North 55°-02'-06.43" East,
94.15 feet to a point;
Thence North 52°-49'-28.43" East,
105.73 feet to a point;
Thence North 56°-28'-40.72" East,
129.32 feet to a point;
Thence North 57°-09'-00.18" East,
70.82 feet to a point;
Thence North 31°-58'-36.36" East,
595.92 feet to a point;
Thence North 32°-07'-56.05" East,
354.15 feet to a point;
Thence North 22°-52'-18.10" East,
260.88 feet to a point;
Thence North 23°-53'-00.70" East,
74.50 feet to a point;
Thence North 23°-52'-54.57" East,
125.19 feet to a point;
Thence North 23°-09'-23.51" East,
102.15 feet to a point;
Thence North 22°-22'-25.33" East,
79.34 feet to a point;
Thence North 24°-07'-15.24" East,
44.52 feet to a point;
Thence North 27°-14'-18.81" East,
38.17 feet to a point;
Thence North 28°-30'-00.83" West,
12.01 feet to a point;
Thence North 14°-30'-36.39" West,
71.64 feet to a point;
Thence North 16°-28'-24.07" West,
88.67 feet to a point;
Thence North 14°-30'-59.98" West,
196.23 feet to a point;
Thence North 14°-50'-38.89" West,
39.28 feet to a point;
Thence North 19°-28'-29.93" West,
8.08 feet to a point;
Thence North 72°-45'-33.65" East,
134.50 feet to a point;
Thence South 16°-28'-31.70" East,
40.73 feet to a point;
Thence North 73°-55'-11.62" East,
46.69 feet to a point;
Thence North 34°-17'-04.38" East,
123.40 feet to a point;
Thence North 75°-33'-34.35" East,
32.09 feet to a point;
Thence North 14°-26'-55.71" West,
91.64 feet to a point;
Thence South 75°-33'-19.10" West,
20.82 feet to a point;

The City Record

80
Thence North 18°-33'-59.62"
15.01 feet to a point;
Thence South 71°-43'-03.60"
37.63 feet to a point;
Thence South 18°-33'-59.62"
15.01 feet to a point;
Thence South 75°-33'-19.10"
42.44 feet to a point;
Thence North 16°-28'-31.70"
101.64 feet to a point;
Thence South 73°-31'-28.30"
60.42 feet to a point;
Thence North 17°-03'-49.17"
55.98 feet to a point;
Thence North 17°-01'-34.97"
17.49 feet to a point;
Thence North 14°-00'-03.73"
39.62 feet to a point;
Thence North 76°-14'-17.73"
21.46 feet to a point;
Thence North 75°-52'-21.44"
143.57 feet to a point;
Thence North 75°-17'-30.58:
94.36 feet to a point;
Thence North 70°-53'-02.89"
84.23 feet to a point;
Thence North 19°-06'-57.11"
30.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 70°-53'-02.89"
83.07 feet to a point;
Thence South 75°-17'-30.58"
93.05 feet to a point;
Thence South 75°-52'-21.00"
143.32 feet to a point;
Thence South 76°-14'-19.54"
34.75 feet to a point;
Thence South 39°-55'-26.17"
20.71 feet to a point;
Thence South 14°-00'-03.73"
58.27 feet to a point;
Thence South 17°-01'-34.97"
18.29 feet to a point;
Thence South 72°-58'-25.03"
44.07 feet to a point;
Thence South 12°-13'-14.93"
25.48 feet to a point;
Thence South 73°-49'-27.16"
69.39 feet to a point;
Thence South 51°-19'-07.55"
18.28 feet to a point;
Thence South 11°-55'-06.88"
2.71 feet to a point;
Thence South 13°-05'-05.85"
50.75 feet to a point;
Thence South 15°-21'-04.28:
68.23 feet to a point;
Thence South 18°-02'-58.81"
81.46 feet to a point;
Thence South 17°-10'-04.51"
28.27 feet to a point;
Thence South 19°-28'-29.93"
25.53 feet to a point;
Thence South 14°-50'-38.89"
23.61 feet to a point;
Thence South 72°-36'-21.12"
50.62 feet to a point;
Thence South 73°-23'-42.34"
56.71 feet to a point;
Thence South 16°-36'-17.66"
30.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 73°-23'-42.34"
56.71 feet to a point;
Thence North 72°-36'-33.06"
47.45 feet to a point;
Thence South 14°-37'-38.99"
166.49 feet to a point;
Thence South 74°-02'-13.37"
22.39 feet to a point;
Thence South 15°-57'-46.63"
30.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 74°-02'-13.37"
23.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 16°-18'-25.59"
73.24 feet to a point;
Thence South 15°-29'-25.77"
45.65 feet to a point;
Thence South 14°-07'-35.38"
17.77 feet to a point;
Thence South 35°-20'-59.31"
11.69 feet to a point;
Thence South 39°-38'-26.43"
10.16 feet to a point;
Thence South 70°-16'-16.38"
4.35 feet to a point;
Thence South 70°-16'-16.38"

West,
West,
East,
West,
West,
West,
West,
West,
West,
East,
East,
East,
East,
West,
West,
West,
West,
West,
West,
East,
East,
West,
East,
West,
West,
East,
East,
East,
East,
East,
East,
East,
West,
West,
East,
East,
East,
East,
West,
East,
East,
East,
East,
West,
West,
West,
West,
West,

15.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 19°-43'-43.62" East,
30.00 feet to a point;
Thence North 70°-16'-16.38" East,
15.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 22°-07'-27.58" West,
107.39 feet to a point;
Thence South 23°-09'-23.51" West,
101.76 feet to a point;
Thence South 23°-52'-54.57" West,
125.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 23°-53'-00.70" West,
74.77 feet to a point;
Thence South 22°-49'-42.17" West,
257.51 feet to a point;
Thence South 32°-07'-56.04" West,
352.97 feet to a point;
Thence South 31°-58'-36.49" West,
589.26 feet to a point;
Thence South 57°-09'-00.18" West,
64.30 feet to a point;
Thence South 56°-28'-40.72" West,
130.45 feet to a point;
Thence South 52°-49'-28.43" West,
106.11 feet to a point;
Thence South 55°-02'-06.43" West,
93.94 feet to a point;
Thence South 53°-38'-07.29" West,
40.79 feet to a point;
Thence South 61°-08'-27.04" West,
61.83 feet to a point;
Thence South 01°-26'-08.97" West,
288.21 feet to a point;
Thence South 32°-16'-47.29" West,
548.92 feet to a point;
Thence South 73°-57'-53.93" West,
74.27 feet to a point;
Thence South 33°-25'-08.35" West,
536.24 feet to a point;
Thence South 17°-26'-48.16" West,
303.89 feet to a point to the true
point of beginning.
Section 2. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be for a fuel
pipeline for operation of fuel tanks
and underground hydrant system.
Section 3. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described (non-exclusive) easement interest to Air BP, a division
of BP Exploration & Oil, Inc. at a
price not less than fair market
value as determined by the Board of
Control.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be for ten (10) years
after which time the easement shall
renew annually; The City shall have
the right to terminate said easement
with or without cause upon ninety
(90) days notice or, alternatively, at
the Director’s discretion, assume
ownership or require removal of the
pipeline; That the easement may
include reasonable access rights;
That the easement shall be not
assignable except after approval by
the City’s Board of Control; That the
easement shall require the grantee
to indemnify the City, including
indemnifying the City from harm
due
to
environmental
damage
caused by the pipeline, provide reasonable insurance, maintain any
grantee improvements located within the easement, and pay any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
referred to above shall be made of
Official Deed of Easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Port Control
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The Deed of Easement shall contain
such additional terms and conditions
as are required to protect the interests of the parties.
The Directors
of Port Control and Law are authorized to execute such other documents, including without limitation,
contracts for right of entry, as may
be necessary to effect the construc-

1382

June 20, 2001
tion of the improvement within the
property described in Section 1.
Section 6. That the City acknowledges, states and affirms, pursuant
to Article IX of the Trust Indenture from the City of Cleveland to
the Chase Manhattan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee, dated November 1,
1976, as amended, that the City
desires and requests that a certain
portion of its land heretofore subject to the Trust Indenture be
released and removed from all
obligations under said Trust Indenture.
Further, the City acknowledges, states and affirms that it is
not in default under said Indenture; that release of such land is
necessary in order to grant an
easement to Air BP, a division of
BP Exploration & Oil, Inc., as
described herein for the purpose of
constructing a fuel pipeline.
The
land to be released is described in
Section 1 hereof.
Section 7.
That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to apply
to Chase Manhattan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee, for release of the
land described in Section 1, pursuant to the Trust Indenture, dated
November 1, 1976, as amended.
Section 8. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to enter
into an agreement with Air BP, a
division of BP Exploration & Oil,
Inc. to acquire all property rights
to the pipeline that runs from the
north to the south fuel farms at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International
Airport at the fair market value of
the same, not to exceed Air BP’s
capitalized costs of the pipeline,
less depreciation.
Said agreement
shall be prepared by the Director
of Law and shall contain such
terms and conditions as said Director deems necessary to protect and
benefit the public interest.
Section 9. That the cost of said
agreement authorized by Section 8
of this ordinance shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60 SF
104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, and from
any funds or subfunds to which are
credited any federal grants or federal PFC authorization, for the
above project and the proceeds
from the sale of any airport revenue bonds issued for a purpose
which includes the above agreement. The cost of said agreement
shall not exceed $4,343,534.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 915-2000.
By Councilmen Dolan, Cimperman
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to design the public
improvement
of
constructing
or
repairing and upgrading of the
existing Long Term Parking Garage
structure
at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International Airport.

June 20, 2001
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
employ by contract one or more consultants or one or more firms of
consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to
provide professional services necessary design to design the public
improvement
of
constructing
or
repairing and upgrading the existing Long Term Parking Garage
structure
at
Cleveland
Hopkins
International Airport, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Department of Port
Control.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment as may be determined after a
full and complete canvass by the
Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract
herein authorized shall be prepared
by the Director of Law, approved
by the Director of Port Control, and
certified
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
Section 2.
That the Summary of
Cost Benefit for the Economy (Long
Term) Garage Rehabilitation contained in File No. 915-2000-A is made
a part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein.
Section 3. That the cost of the professional services hereby authorized
shall not exceed $485,000.00 and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF
001, 60 SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106,
and from any funds or subfunds to
which are credited any federal
grants or federal PFC authorization,
for the above project and the proceeds from the sale of any airport
revenue bonds issued for a purpose
which includes the above project,
Request Nos. 8277 and 8278.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 919-2000.
By Councilmen Dolan, Cimperman
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
a North fuel farm with truck rack
for into-plane fueling; authorizing
the Director of Port Control to enter
into contract for the making of such
improvement; and authorizing said
director to employ one or more professional consultants to design the
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure provid-

The City Record
ing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of constructing a North fuel
farm with truck rack for into-plane
fueling, for the Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport,
Department of Port Control, by contract duly let to the lowest responsible bidder after competitive bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
enter into contract for the making
of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
employ by contract one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
design
the
public
improvement
authorized above.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control from a list of qualified consultants available for such employment
as may be determined after a full
and complete canvass by the Director of Port Control for the purpose
of compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Director of Port Control, and certified by
the Director of Finance.
Section 4. That the Director of Port
Control is hereby authorized to enter
into an agreement with Air BP, a division of BP Exploration & Oil, Inc. for
the acquisition of any portion of the
north fuel farm or the accompanying
fuel pipe lines or equipment that may
be needed for the making of said
improvement, at a cost not to exceed
Air BP’s capitalized cost of the property acquired, less depreciation. The
contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved
by the Director of Port Control, and certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 5. That the cost of said
improvement, the acquisition agreement authorized with Air BP, and services hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund Nos. 60 SF 001, 60
SF 104, 60 SF 105, 60 SF 106, and
from any funds or subfunds to
which are credited any federal
grants or federal PFC authorization,
for the above project and the proceeds from the sale of any airport
revenue bonds issued for a purpose
which includes the above project,
Request Nos. 8288 and 8289.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

1383

81
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 1067-2000.
By Councilmen Britt, Melena, Cimperman
and
Patmon
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan and an
Economic
Development
Initiative
Grant Agreement with Cleveland
Health Education Museum to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the construction and improvements to its
facilities located at 8911 Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan with
the
Cleveland
Health
Education
Museum to partially finance the construction and improvements to its
facilities located at 8911 Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
(the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a grant
agreement
with
the
Cleveland
Health
Education
Museum
to
receive Economic Development Initiative Grant funds to partially
finance
the
above-described
Improvement.
Section 3. That the terms of said
loan and grant shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 1067-2000-B.
Section 4. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed a loan
amount of $5,000,000 and a grant
amount of $1,250,000. The loan shall
be paid from Fund No. 18 SF 001 and
18 SF 003 and the grant shall be
paid from Fund No. 18 SF 003,
Request No. 13161.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept collateral as
set forth in the Executive Summary
contained in the file referenced in
this ordinance in order to secure
repayment of said loan. Any security instrument shall be prepared
and approved by the Director of
Law.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 18 SF 002.
Section 7. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and such fees are hereby
appropriated
to
cover
costs
incurred in the preparation of the
loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. Such fees shall be
deposited and expended from Fund
No. 18 SF 004.
Section 8. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other docu-

The City Record

82
ments as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 1961-2000.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control
to execute an easement granting to
Ameritech certain easement rights
in property located at Old Grayton
Road and declaring said easement
rights no longer needed for public
use; proffering certain representations for purposes of the Trust
Indenture from the City of Cleveland to the Chase Manhattan Trust
Company, National Association, as
successor trustee and authorizing
the Director of Port Control to
apply to the bond trustee for land
release.
Whereas, Ameritech has requested
the Director of Port Control to convey easement rights in property
located at Old Grayton Road; and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are no longer needed for
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined that easement interests
in the following described property
are no longer needed for public use:
Brookpark Road Project
Easement for Ameritech
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
Original Rockport Township Section
No. 4.
Starting at the intersection of the
centerline of existing Brookpark
Road (a.k.a. State Route 17), 100.00
feet wide, and existing Old Grayton
Road, 60.00 feet wide;
Thence North 37° 43' 44" East
along the said centerline of existing
Old Grayton Road, 158.53 feet;
Thence South 52° 16' 16" East,
30.00 feet to a point in the Southeasterly line of existing Old Grayton Road, at the Principal Place of
Beginning of the easement herein
intended to be described;
Thence North 37° 43' 44" East
along the said Southeasterly line of
existing Old Grayton Road, 56.09
feet to its intersection with the
Westerly line of proposed Relocated
Grayton Road;
Thence South 19° 55’ 30" East
along the said Westerly line of proposed Relocated Old Grayton Road,
23.39 feet to the Northerly end of a
50.00 foot radius turnout to the
Northerly line of proposed Relocated Brookpark Road;
Thence Southeasterly along said

turnout by a curve to the right, an
arc distance of 13.42 feet, said arc
having a radius of 50.00 feet and a
chord which bears South 12° 14' 13"
East, 13.38 feet;
Thence South 37° 43' 44" West,
38.88 feet;
Thence North 52° 16' 16" West,
29.78 feet to a point in a 35.00 foot
radius turnout between the Northerly line of existing Brookpark Road
and the said Southeasterly line of
existing Old Grayton Road;
Thence Northeasterly along said
turnout by a curve to the right, an
arc distance of 3.92 feet, said arc
having a radius of 35.00 feet and a
chord which bears North 34° 31' 20"
East, 3.91 feet to the Principal Place
of Beginning and containing 0.0346
acres of land as described on October 9, 2000 by R.M. Kole & Assoc.,
Inc., Professional Land Surveyors.
Section 2. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to construct
and maintain a vault along Old
Grayton Road.
Section 3. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described, non-exclusive, easement interests to Ameritech at a
price not less than fair market
value as determined by the Board of
Control.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be determined by the
Board of Control; that the easement
shall include reasonable right of
entry rights to the City; that the
easement shall be assignable only
upon the prior approval of the Cleveland City Council that the easement
shall require the grantee to indemnify the City, provide reasonable
insurance, maintain any grantee
improvements located within the
easement,
including,
appropriate
landscaping around each improvement in order to conceal such
improvement, and pay any applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
shall be made by Official Deed of
Easement prepared by the Director
of Law and executed by the Director of Port Control on behalf of the
City of Cleveland. The Deed of Easement shall contain such additional
terms and conditions as are required
to protect the interests of the parties. The Directors of Port Control
and Law are authorized to execute
such other documents, including
without
limitation,
contracts
for
right of entry, as may be necessary
to effect the construction of the
vault along Old Grayton Road.
Section 6. That the City acknowledges, states and affirms, pursuant
to Article IX of the Trust Indenture
from the City of Cleveland to the
Chase Manhattan Trust Company,
National Association, as successor
trustee, dated November 1, 1976, as
amended (the “Indenture”), that the
City desires and requests that certain portions of its land heretofore
subject to the Indenture be released
and removed from all obligations
under said Indenture. Further, the
City
acknowledges,
states
and
affirms that it is not in default
under said Indenture; that release of
such land is necessary in order to
serve the public purpose of providing public utilities; and that certain
public improvements will be constructed on the land to be released,
including public utilities.
Section 7. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to apply

1384

June 20, 2001
to the Chase Manhattan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee, for release of the
land described in Section 1, pursuant
to the Indenture.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 166-01.
By Councilmen Britt, Melena and
Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing
the Director
of Community
Development to enter into an agreement with A Cultural Exchange for
an after-school literacy project for 50
children in various wards of the City
of Cleveland, from kindergarten to
7th grade, to further the public purpose of providing educational services for residents of the City of
Cleveland through the use of Ward
6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into an agreement
with A Cultural Exchange for an
after-school literacy project for 50
children in Wards 3, 6, 8, 9, 13, 15,
19 and 21, from kindergarten to 7th
grade, to further the public purpose
of providing educational services for
residents of the City of Cleveland
through the use of Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $240,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166 and Fund
Nos. 14 SF 024, 14 SF025 and 14 SF
026.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 213-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance directing
the
Director
of
Public
Safety,
through the Division of Fire, to
fully staff and operate the fire safety boat.
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland is charged with representing the interests of the citizens
of the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, the safety and wellbeing of the citizens is of paramount importance to this Council;
and

June 20, 2001
Whereas, through the 2000 budget,
Council allocated general funds for
the maintenance and operation of a
fire boat; and
Whereas,
the
Administration
pledged that the fire boat would be
fully staffed and operational; however, such pledge was broken and
the fire boat has not been staffed;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provisions of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976 to
the contrary, the Director of Public
Safety, through the Division of Fire,
shall staff, operate and cause the
fire boat to be maintained with a
minimum of four firefighters on regular duty per company per twentyfour hour day for each day of the
year.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Vetoed June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 290-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission to employ one or
more consultants to provide professional services to perform a job
analysis and to develop, administer
and grade promotional examinations
for the Division of Fire, Department
of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Secretary of
the Civil Service Commission is
hereby authorized to employ by contract one or more consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to perform a job analysis
and to develop, administer and
grade promotional examinations for
the Division of Fire, Department of
Public Safety.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Secretary of the Civil
Service Commission from a list of
qualified consultants available for
such employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Secretary of the Civil
Service Commission for the purpose
of compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission, and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall

The City Record
be paid from Fund No. 01-010801632000, Request No. 12935.
Section 3. That this ordinance and
the results thereof shall be reviewed
by the Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training Committee one
month before the 2002 budget hearings.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 306-01.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 12713 Longmeade
Avenue to Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner
of
Purchases
and
Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 020-09-095,
as more fully described below, to
Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 020-09-095
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
261 in the Clark Manchester Company’s Homesite Allotments Nos. 3
and 5 of part of Rockport Township
Lot No. 1, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 54 of Maps, Page 36
and being 39.99 feet frontage on the
Southerly side of Longmead Avenue
S.W. and extending back between
parallel lines 175 feet, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of

1385

83
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 313-01.
By Councilmen White, Polensek
and
Patmon
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission to employ one or
more consultants to provide professional services to perform a job
analysis and to develop, administer
and grade promotional examinations
for the Division of Police, Department of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Secretary of
the Civil Service Commission is
hereby authorized to employ by contract one or more consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to perform a job analysis
and to develop, administer and
grade promotional examinations for
the Division of Police, Department
of Public Safety.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Secretary of the Civil
Service Commission from a list of
qualified consultants available for
such employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Secretary of the Civil
Service Commission for the purpose
of compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission, and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund No. 01-010801632000, Request No. 12936.

84
Section 3. That this ordinance and
the results thereof shall be reviewed
by the Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training Committee one
month before the 2002 budget hearings.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 314-01.
By Councilmen White, Polensek
and
Patmon
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission to employ one or
more consultants to provide professional services to perform a job
analysis and to develop, administer
and grade an EMT supervisor examination for the Division of Emergency Medical Services, Department
of Public Safety.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Secretary of
the Civil Service Commission is
hereby authorized to employ by contract one or more consultants for the
purpose of supplementing the regularly employed staff of the several
departments of the City of Cleveland
in order to perform a job analysis
and to develop, administer and
grade an EMT supervisor examination for the Division of Emergency
Medical Services, Department of
Public Safety.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Secretary of the Civil
Service Commission from a list of
qualified consultants available for
such employment as may be determined after a full and complete canvass by the Secretary of the Civil
Service Commission for the purpose
of compiling such a list. The compensation to be paid for such services shall be fixed by the Board of
Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law, approved by the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission, and certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 2. That the costs for such
services herein contemplated shall
be paid from Fund No. 01-010801632000, Request No. 12934.
Section 3. That this ordinance and
the results thereof shall be reviewed
by the Employment, Affirmative
Action and Training Committee one
month before the 2002 budget hearings.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

The City Record
Ord. No. 358-01.
By Councilman Cimperman (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to CTF Hotel Holdings, Inc., CTF Hotels & Resorts,
joint owners of the Renaissance
Hotel of Cleveland, to encroach into
the public right-of-way of West
Superior Avenue N.W. and The
Bridge of Prospect Avenue N.W. to
construct new facades for the hotel’s
parking garage and ballroom.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council, and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to CTF Hotel Holdings, Inc.,
CTF Hotels & Resorts, joint owners
of the Cleveland Renaissance Hotel,
24 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio
44113, its successors and assigns, for
the construction, use and maintenance of new building facades for
the hotel’s parking garage and ballroom, which will encroach into the
public right-of-way of West Superior Avenue N.W. and The Bridge of
Prospect Avenue N.W. at the locations more fully described as follows:
ENCROACHMENT AREA OF
NEW FACADE WITHIN WEST
SUPERIOR AVE. N.W.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio and known as being a parcel 1.00 foot in width within the
bounds of West Superior Avenue
N.W., 132.00 feet in width, bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the southerly line of
said West Superior Avenue N.W. at
the point distance South 89°-58'-55"
West, 1.33 feet as measured along
said southerly line from the northwesterly corner of land conveyed to
Public
Square
Hotel
Community
Urban Development Corporation by
deed dated October 31, 1977 and
recorded in Volume 14639, Page 447
of Cuyahoga County Records;
Course No. 1: Thence North 0°-01'05" West, perpendicular to said
southerly line of West Superior
Avenue N.W., 1.00 foot to its intersection with a line drawn parallel
with and distant 1.00 foot northerly
by rectangular measurement from
said southerly line;
Course No. 2: Thence North 89°-58'55" East along said parallel line,
100.65 feet;
Course No. 3: Thence South 0°-01'05" East, 1.00 foot to a point in the
aforementioned southerly line of
West Superior Avenue N.W.;
Course No. 4: Thence South 89°58'-55" West, along said southerly
line of West Superior Avenue N.W.,
100.65 feet to the place of beginning,
according to a survey by Garrett &
Associates, Inc., Registered Engineers and Surveyors, made in September, 2000, be the same more or
less.
The bearings used herein are
based on an assumed meridian and
are used only to denote angles.
ENCROACHMENT AREA NEW
FACADE WITHIN BRIDGE OF
PROSPECT AVE. N.W.

1386

June 20, 2001
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, known as being a parcel 1.50
feet in width within the bounds of
the Bridge of Prospect Avenue N.W.,
100.00 feet in width, as shown by the
Dedication Plat recorded in Volume
120, Page 37 of Cuyahoga County
Records, being also a part of Original Two Ace lot Nos. 79, 80 and 81,
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the northeasterly
line of said Bridge of Prospect
Avenue N.W., at the point distance
North 84°-03'-05" East, 1.25 feet as
measured along said northeasterly
line from the southwesterly corner
of land conveyed to Public Square
Hotel Community Development Corporation by deed dated October 31,
1977 and recorded in Volume 14639,
Page
447
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records;
Course No. 1: Thence South 84°03'-05" East, along said northeasterly line of the Bridge of Prospect
Avenue N.W., 234.00 feet;
Course No. 2: Thence South 5°-56'55" West perpendicular to said
northeasterly line of the Bridge of
Prospect Avenue N.W., 1.50 feet to
its intersection with a line drawn
parallel with and distant 1.50 feet to
its intersection with a line drawn
parallel with and distant 1.50 feet
southeasterly by rectangular measurement from said northeasterly
line;
Course No. 3: Thence North 84°-03'05" West, along said parallel line,
234.00 feet;
Course No. 4: Thence North 5°-56'55" East, 1.50 feet to the place of
beginning, according to a survey by
Garrett & Associates, Inc. Registered
Engineers
and
Surveyors,
made in October, 2000, be the same
more or less.
The bearings used herein are
based on an assumed meridian and
are used only to denote angles.
Section 2. That said ballroom and
parking garage facades will be constructed within the public right-ofway as aforesaid in Section 1, and
will also be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the Commissioner of
Engineering and Construction. That
all other required permits, including
a Building Permit, shall be obtained
before said ballroom and parking
garage facades are constructed.
Section 3. That the permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when, in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

The City Record

June 20, 2001

85

Ord. No. 493-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to make alterations and modifications in
Contract No. 56174 for emergency repairs to Eagle Avenue Bridge/West 3rd Street ramp with Perk Company, Inc.
for the Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized to make the following alterations and modifications in Contract No. 56174 with Perk Company Inc. for emergency repairs to Eagle Avenue Bridge/West 3rd
Street ramp, for the Department of Public Service:
SUBSIDIARY ADDITIONS
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

5” Strip seal structural steel joint
1/2” x 8” x 1’4” elastromeric bearing pad
Abutment re-facing
Trench drains and downspouts
Expansion joint repair
Conc. Pavt. @ exp. Jt. and trench drain
Expansion cap beam re-facing
Floor stringer repairs
City of Cleveland mix light pole bases

211 l.f. @ 246.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 51,906.00
36 each @ $175.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,300.00
120 s.y. @ $555.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66,600.00
3 lump @ $3,500.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,500.00
37 c.y. @ $395.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14,615.00
105 s.y. @ $525.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55,125.00
65 c.y. @ $2,526.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . 164,190.00
47 c.y. @ $2,630.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . 123,610.00
4 each @ $1,500.00 . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,000.00

TOTAL SUBSIDIARY ADDITIONS
Original contract Amount
Subsidiary Additions
TOTAL REVISED CONTRACT AMOUNT

$498,846.00
$
+
$

215,585.00
498,846.00
714,431.00

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the said Director of Public Service, countersigned by the
Mayor, and consented to by the surety on said contract, which price to be paid therefor has been agreed upon
in writing and signed by the Director of Public Service and the Contractor. This alteration will cause an increase
in the amount of the original contract in the sum of $498,846.00, to be paid from Fund No. 20 SF 322, Request No.
34449.
Section 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 496-01.
By Councilmen Polensek and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Safety to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Criminal Justice Services Agency
for
the
Juvenile
Accountability
Incentive Block Grant Program; and
to enter into contracts necessary to
implement the Program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $651,391.00, from the
Criminal Justice Services Agency, to
conduct the Juvenile Accountability
Incentive Block Grant Program, for
the purposes set forth in the application and according thereto; that
the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That the application for
said grant, File No. 496-01-A, made a
part hereof as if fully rewritten
herein, including the obligation of
the City of Cleveland to provide a
cash match in the sum of $72,377,
payable from fund No. 01-600201639905, is hereby approved in all
respects.

Section 3. That the Director of
Public Safety shall have the authority to extend the term of the grant
if said extension does not involve an
increase in the dollar amount of the
grant specified above.
Section 4. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Safety is hereby authorized to lease
office space at an east side location
and a west side location for the
implementation of the grant.
The
term of the lease or leases shall not
exceed the grant period and shall be
in an aggregate estimated annual
amount of $27,000.00.
That the lease or leases may
authorize the City to make improvements to the leased premises under
terms to be determined by the parties consistent with the purposes of
the grant. That the lease or leases
may provide for the City’s payment
of appropriate utility and other operating costs of the leased premises.
That the lease or leases shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such authorized terms
and conditions as are required to
protect the interests of the City.
That the Director of Public Safety, the Director of Law, and other
appropriate City officials, are authorized to execute such other documents and certificates, and take
such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease or leases authorized by this
ordinance.

1387

Section 5. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the lease of a maximum of
six (6) vehicles and for the lease of
equipment necessary for the implementation of the program, to be procured by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to enter into contract with the
Police Athletic League for professional services, as identified in the
grant
application,
necessary
to
implement
the
grant
authorized
herein.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to employ by contract one or more
professional consultants or one or
more firms of professional consultants for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to implement the program.
The selection of said consultant or
consultants for such services shall
be made by the Board of Control
upon the nomination of the Director
of Public Safety from a list of qualified consultants available for such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Public Safety for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the

86
Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Public Safety, and
certified by the Director of Finance.
Section 8. That the costs for such
services, purchases and leases herein contemplated shall be paid from
the fund or funds to which are credited the proceeds of the grant
accepted pursuant to this ordinance
and from cash matching funds identified in this ordinance.
Section 9. That the Director of
Public Safety shall provide quarterly reports to each member of City
Council detailing the activities and
number of residents serviced from
each ward by this program.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 502-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation, and Properties to enter into
an agreement with Northeast Shores
Development Corporation to maintain and adopt certain real estate
belonging to the City.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 and
Section 133.24 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Director of Parks, Recreation and
Properties is authorized to enter
into a property adoption agreement
with the Northeast Shores Development Corporation to maintain and
adopt certain real estate belonging
to the City, which includes the North
Shore Collinwood Town Center gazebo, flagpole, and message board,
located at the triangle at East 174th
Street and Lakeshore Boulevard.
Section 2. That this property adoption shall not be construed as a conveyance of an right, title, or interest in public property, but is the
grant of a privilege revocable at the
will of the Council.
Section 3. That the property adoption agreement hereby authorized
shall be prepared by the Director of
Law and shall contain such additional terms and conditions as said
Director deems necessary to protect
and benefit the public interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

The City Record
Ord. No. 507-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on East 61st Street to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-29-075 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-075
Situated in the City of Cleveland.
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being as being
Sublot No. 60 in W.S. and R.W.
Chamberlain’s Allotment of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 334 and 335 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
28
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 61st Street
(formerly
Lodge
Avenue);
and
extending back between parallel
lines 160 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-29-078 as
more
fully
described
below
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-078
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
63 in W.S. and M.W. Chamberlain’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334 and 335,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Sup-

1388

June 20, 2001
plies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-29-079 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Section 6. That the real property to
be sold pursuant to this Ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-079
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
64 in W.S. and M. W. Chamberlain’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 335 and Lot
No. 334, as shown by the recorded
plat in Volume 3 of Maps, Page 28
of Cuyahoga County Records, said
Sublot No. 64 has a frontage of 40
feet on the Westerly side of East
61st Street (formerly Lodge Street)
and extends back between parallel
lines, 160 feet as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-29-030 as
more fully described to Burten, Bell,
Carr Development, Inc., or designee.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-080
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
65 in W.S. and M.W. Chamberlain’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334 and 335,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 40
feet front on the Westerly side of
East 61st Street and extending back
of equal width 160 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel Nos. 118-29-083 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-083
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
68 in Chamberlain Allotment of part
of Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 334 and 335, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 3 of Maps,
Page
28
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Westerly side of East 61st Street
and extending back of equal width,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-29-086 as

June 20, 2001
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-086
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 34.28 feet of Sublot No. 71
in W.S. and M.W. Chamberlain’s
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334 and 335,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3 of Maps, Page 28 of Cuyahoga County Records and being
34.28 feet front on the Westerly side
of East 61st Street (formerly Lodge
Avenue) and extending back of
equal width 160 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 118-29-088 as
more
fully
described
below,
to
Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc.,
or designee.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-29-088
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 72 in the Chamberlain
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 334 and 335,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 3, Page 28 of Cuyahoga
County Records and bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning on the Westerly line of
East 61st Street (formerly Lodge
Avenue) at the Southeasterly corner
of said Sublot No. 72; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of
Sublot No. 72, 160.04 feet to the
Southwesterly corner thereof; thence
Northerly along the Westerly line of
Sublot No. 72, 30.77 feet to the Southwesterly corner of land conveyed to
Joseph
Rosenberg
and
Enetta
Rosenberg by deed dated December
2, 1913, and recorded in Volume 1498,
Page
404
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence Easterly along the
Southerly line of land so conveyed
to Joseph and Enetta Rosenberg
about 160 feet to the Westerly line
of East 61st Street; thence Southerly along the Westerly line of East
61st Street, 34.19 feet to the place of
beginning, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 15. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 16. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such

The City Record
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 17. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 18. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 509-01.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and
located
at
12923
Milligan
Avenue to Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 020-09-062,
020-09-063 and 020-09-064, as more
fully described below, to BellairePuritas Development Corporation or
designee.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. Nos. 020-09-062, 020-09-063
and 020-09-064
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original Rockport Township Section
No. 1 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Southerly line of
proposed Milligan Avenue, S.W., 45
feet wide, said Southerly line being
parallel to and distance 154 feet
Southerly, measured at right angles
from the Northerly line of land con-

1389

87
veyed to The Guarantee Title and
Trust Company, Trustee, by Deed
dated July 1, 1902 and recorded in
Volume 844, Page 407 of Cuyahoga
County Records at a point 170 feet
Easterly,
measured
along
said
Southerly line, from its point of
intersection with the Easterly line
of West 130th Street, (formerly Settlement Road) 60 feet wide, thence
Easterly along said Southerly line
of proposed Milligan Avenue, S.W.,
105 feet, thence Southerly on a line
parallel to said Easterly line of
West 130th Street, 109 feet, thence
Westerly on a line parallel to said
Southerly line of proposed Milligan
Avenue,
S.E.,
105
feet,
thence
Northerly 109 feet to the place of
beginning, and being further known
as Sublot Nos. 157, 158 and 159 in
proposed Drexel Park Avenue Allotment of part of Original Rockport
Township Section No. 1, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 510-01.
By Councilmen Willis, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on scattered sites to
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation or designee.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and

88
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-07-112 as
more fully described below, to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation or
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-07-112
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being the
Northerly 40 feet from front to rear
of Sublot No. 26 in Burrows and
Putt’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 364,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 16 of Maps, Page 29 of Cuyahoga County Records, and being 40
feet front on the Easterly side of
East 124th Street, (formerly Dickenson Avenue), and extending back
between lines 125 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-13-005 as
more fully described below, to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation or designee.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-13-005
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 4 in the Eddy Road
Allotment Company’s Eddy Road
Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot Nos. 372 and 373,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 28 of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County Records, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning on the Easterly line of
Eddy Road, N.E., at the Southwesterly corner of said Sublot No. 4;
thence Northerly along said easterly line of Eddy Road N.E. 41.91 feet
to the Northwesterly corner of said
Sublot No. 4; thence Easterly along
the Northerly line of said Sublot No.
4, 120 feet; thence Southerly parallel
with the Easterly line of said Sublot
No. 4, 40 feet to the Southerly line
of said Sublot No. 4; thence Westerly along the Southerly line of said
Sublot No. 4, 107.50 feet to the place
of beginning, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highway.

The City Record
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-13-006 as
more fully described to Northeastern
Neighborhood Development Corporation or designee.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-13-006
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 5 in Eddy Road Allotment
Company’s “Eddy Road Subdivision”
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot Nos. 372 and 373, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 28
of Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County
Records
and
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning, on the Northerly line
of Woodside Avenue, N.E., at a point
90.13 feet Westerly (measured along
said Northerly line) from the Southeasterly corner of said Sublot No. 5;
thence Westerly along said Northerly line of Woodside Avenue, N.E., 95
feet to the Easterly line of Eddy
Road, N.E.; thence Northerly along
said Easterly line of Eddy Road,
N.E., 41.91 feet to the Northwesterly
corner of said Sublot No. 5; thence
Easterly, along the Northerly line of
said Sublot No. 5, 107.5 feet; thence
Southerly 40 feet to the place of
beginning, be the same more of less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-13-008 as
more fully described below, to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation or designee.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-13-008
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
99 in the Eddy Road Allotment Company’s Eddy Road Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lots Nos. 372 and 373, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 28 of
Maps, Page 9 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 41.91 feet front
on the Easterly side of Eddy Road
and extending back 162.01 feet on
the Northerly line, 149.51 feet on the
Southerly line and having a rear
line of 40 feet, as appear by said
plat.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-13-048 as
more fully described below, to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation or designee.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-13-048
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
14 in Eddy Road Allotment Company’s Eddy Road Allotment of part of

1390

June 20, 2001
Original One Hundred Acre Lots
Nos. 372 and 373 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 28 of Maps,
Page
9
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 47 feet front on
the Northerly side of Woodside
Avenue, N.E., 187.03 feet deep on the
Easterly line, 188.55 feet deep on the
Westerly line and 47.02 feet wide in
the rear, as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 110-19-092 as
more fully described below, to Northeastern Neighborhood Development
Corporation or designee.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 110-19-092
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
37 in the C.S. Realty Company’s Subdivision No. 3 of Original One Hundred Acre Lot No. 371, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 54 of
Maps, Page 6 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of Whitmore
Avenue, N.E., and extends back
between parallel lines 138.45 feet
deep on the Westerly line, 138.42
feet deep on the Easterly line, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 13. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 14. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 15. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 16. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

The City Record

June 20, 2001
Ord. No. 543-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to lease property at 13715 Aspinwall
Avenue
to
American
Municipal
Power-Ohio, Inc. for a term not to
exceed twenty years.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property located at
13715 Aspinwall Avenue which is
not needed for public use for the
next twenty (20) years; and
Whereas,
American
Municipal
Power-Ohio, Inc. has proposed to
lease said property from the City;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Utilities is authorized to lease to
American
Municipal
Power-Ohio,
Inc., certain property which is determined to be not needed for public
use for the term of the lease for the
purpose of installing six (6) electric
generators and related equipment,
and which is described as follows:
C.P.P. to AMERICAN MUNICIPAL
POWER-OHIO, INC.
LEASE AREA
0.7262 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio
and known as being a part of Sublot
Nos. 21-32 in H.C. McDowell, Brayton, et al. Subdivision of part of
Original 100 acre Lot No. 354, as
recorded in Plat Volume 10, Page 23
of said County’s records also known
as being all of the parcel of land
conveyed to the City of Cleveland as
recorded in Deed Volume 92-4620,
Page 11 and part of the parcel of
land conveyed to the City of Cleveland as recorded in Deed Book 4280,
Page 548 of said County’s records,
and being further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at 5/8 inch rebar found
at the intersection of the centerline
of Aspinwall Avenue (60 feet wide)
and the west right of way line of
East 140th Street (50 feet wide);
Thence along said centerline S 68°
44’ 25” W for a distance of 852.46
feet to a point;
Thence N 21° 15’ 35” W for a distance of 30.00 feet to a point on the
North right of way line of said
Aspinwall Avenue, said point being
the True Place of Beginning of the
parcel of land hereinafter described;
Thence clockwise along the following nine (9) courses and distances:
1) Thence along said North line S
68° 44’ 25” W for a distance of 419.11
feet to a point:
2) Thence N 12° 49’ 15” E for a
distance of 11.26 feet to a point;
3) Thence along the arc of a curve
to the right having the following
properties:
Delta
Radius
Tangent
Chord
Chord Bearing
for a distance
point:

= 12° 58’ 07”
= 1835.00
= 208.56
= 414.46
= N 55° 06’ 54” E
of 415.35 feet to a

4) Thence N 21° 15’ 35” W for a
distance of 23.04 feet to a point;
5) Thence N 68° 44’ 25” E for a
distance of 92.18 feet to a point:
6) Thence S 21° 15’ 35” E for a
distance of 26.14 feet to a point:
7) Thence S 68° 44’ 25” W for a
distance of 20.00 feet to a point:
8) Thence S 31° 09’ 10” W for a
distance of 78.46 feet to a point:
9) Thence S 21° 15’ 35” E for a
distance of 56.00 feet to the True
Place of Beginning and containing
0.7262 acres of land, more or less,
and subject to all easements, restrictions and covenants of record as surveyed under the supervision of
Joseph F. Charlson, Professional
Surveyor No. 8003, for GPD Associates, in February of 2001.
Section 2. That the term of the
lease authorized by Section 1 shall
not exceed twenty (20) years.
Section
3.
That
the
property
described in Section 1 shall be
leased for consideration which is
not less than fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control.
Section 4. That the lease may
authorize
the
lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased premises subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 5. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law and
shall contain such authorized terms
and conditions as are required to
protect the interests of the City.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Utilities and the Director of
Law, and other appropriate City officials, are authorized to execute such
other documents and certificates,
and take such other actions as may
be necessary or appropriate to effect
the lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 609-01.
By Councilmen Cintron, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of reconstructing West 31st Street between Hancock Avenue and Keene Court, and
authorizing the Director of Public
Service to enter into contract for the
making of such improvement; and
authorizing said Director to enter
into such other agreements necessary to complete this improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of reconstructing West 31st
Street between Hancock Avenue and
Keene Court, for the Division of
Engineering
and
Construction,
Department of Public Service, by
contract duly let to the lowest

1391

89
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to enter into such other agreements
as are necessary to complete the
planning and construction of the
improvement,
which
agreements
shall contain such terms and conditions as the Director of Law determines shall best protect the public
interest.
Section 4. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF
001 and 10 SF 166, Request No. 34445.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 611-01.
By Councilmen Cintron, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 137-96,
passed February 5, 1996, as amended
by Ordinance No. 731-2000, passed
May 22, 2000, relating to causing the
payment of the City of Cleveland’s
share to the State of Ohio for the
cost
of
rehabilitating
or
reconstructing
the
West
44th
Street
Bridge.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 137-96, passed February
5, 1996, as amended by Ordinance
No. 731-2000, passed May 22, 2000,
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That this Council hereby authorizes payment to the State
of Ohio of the City’s share of the
cost of the improvement of rehabilitating, repairing and reconstructing
the West 44th Street Bridge over
Conrail and Train Avenue, City
Bridge No. 1:053 from Fund Nos. 20
SF 322, 20 SF 190, 20 SF 312, 20 SF
883, 20 SF 302, 20 SF 342, 20 SF 353,
20 SF 373 and 20 SF 364, Request No.
31791 and 34443.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 137-96, passed February 5, 1996, as amended by Ordinance No. 731-2000, passed May 22,
2000, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of

90
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001, without
the signature of the Mayor.

Ord. No. 621-01.
By Councilmen Rybka and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of labor and materials necessary to service and maintain elevators and escalators, for the Division of Convention Center and Stadium, Department of Parks, Recreation and Properties, for a period
not to exceed three years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for the requirements for the
period of three years of the necessary items of labor and materials
necessary to service and maintain
elevators and escalators, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Division of Convention
Center and Stadium, Department of
Parks, Recreation and Properties.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
three years may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $150,000
and shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
38510)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of three-thirds
of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in
force immediately upon its passage
and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in
force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

The City Record
Ord. No. 641-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
employ one or more professional
consultants to provide services necessary to maintain, operate and
manage the fuel farm at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport, for a
period not to exceed five years with
one five-year option to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Port
Control
is
hereby
authorized
to
employ by contract one or more consultants or one or more firms of consultants for a period of not more than
five years with one five-year option
to renew excercisable by the Director
of Port Control for the purpose of supplementing the regularly employed
staff of the several departments of
the City of Cleveland in order to provide professional services necessary
to maintain, operate and manage the
fuel farm at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, including collecting
the fees set and imposed in Section 2
of this ordinance.
The selection of said consultants
for such services shall be made by
the Board of Control upon the nomination of the Director of Port Control and the concurrence of the Airline Fuel Committee, passed August
16, 1976, from a list of all qualified
consultants
available
for
such
employment as may be determined
after a full and complete canvass by
the Director of Port Control for the
purpose of compiling such a list.
The management fee portion of the
compensation shall not be increased
during the term by more than the
increase in the regional Consumer
Price Index over the same time period. The compensation to be paid for
such services shall be fixed by the
Board of Control. The contract herein authorized shall be prepared by
the Director of Law, approved by
the Director of Port Control and certified by the Director of Finance,
and shall include the following provisions: 1) that the consultant shall
carry insurance in the amount of
$300,000,000, and that the consultant
shall use best efforts to purchase
the same from a Cleveland underwriter; and 2) that the consultant
shall notify the Director of Port Control of the selection of an underwriter, who shall in turn send written notice to the Council President,
and the chairman of the Aviation
and Transportation Committee and
the chairman of the Finance Committee.
Section 2. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized
to set, impose and collect fees to
be charged to the users of the fuel
farm for the use of the fuel farm;
and that such fees be and they are
hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Section 3 herein.
Section 3. That the costs for such
services contemplated in Section 1
herein shall be paid from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
proceeds generated from the operation of the fuel farm, as described
in Section 2 herein.
Section 4. That the Director of Port
Control is authorized to enter into
such other agreements with any and
all affected airlines as are necessary to implement the contract to

1392

June 20, 2001
maintain, operate and manage the
fuel farm at Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 648-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the
Department
of
Health
and
Human Services, Maternal & Child
Health
Bureau
to
conduct
the
Healthy Family Healthy Start Program; and to enter into contracts
with various entities to implement
the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the
approximate
amount
of
$2,500,000, and any other funds as
they become available during the
grant term, from the Department of
health and Human Services, Maternal & child Health Bureau, to conduct the Healthy Family Healthy
Start Program, for the purposes set
forth in the project abstract and
according thereto; that the Director
of Public Health is hereby authorized to file all papers and execute
all documents necessary to receive
the funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the project abstract for said
grant.
Section 2. That the project abstract for said grant, File No. 648-01A, made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, is hereby approved
in all respects.
Section 3. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to enter into a contract or contracts
with various entities, including but
not limited to Neighborhood Centers
Association, CWRU/Infant Mortality
Review, Northeast Ohio Neighborhood Health Services (NEON), and
the Cleveland Municipal School System, for the implementation of the
program, as described in the project
abstract, and that said contracts are
payable from the fund or funds to
which are credited the grant proceeds accepted pursuant to Section 1
of this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

June 20, 2001
Ord. No. 650-01.
By Councilmen Melena, Lewis,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan and an
Economic
Development
Initiative
Grant
Agreement
with
Famicos
Foundation, or its designee, to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the planning,
design,
construction,
site
improvements
and
development,
rehabilitation and all other associated costs, including housing construction
and
redevelopment
of
League Park in the area bounded by
East 55th Street to East 71st Street,
from Chester Avenue to Superior
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 1076-97, passed June 16, 1997, this
Council authorized the Director of
Economic Development to enter into
a contract with League Park Development Corp., to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance acquisition and development
for property around League Park, as
part of a larger project which shall
include the construction of new
housing; and
Whereas, League Park Development Corp. has ceased to operate
and therefore the authority granted
to them under Ordinance No. 1076-97,
was never utilized; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan with
Famicos Foundation, or its designee,
to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance the
planning, design, construction, site
improvements
and
development,
rehabilitation and all other associated costs, including housing construction
and
redevelopment
of
League Park in the area bounded by
East 55th Street to East 71st Street,
from Chester Avenue to Superior
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio,
(the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into an Economic Development Initiative Grant
Agreement with Famicos Foundation, or its designee, to provide Economic Development Initiative Grant
funds to partially finance the abovedescribed Improvement.
Section 3. That the terms of said
loan and grant shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 650-01-A.
Section 4. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed a loan
amount of $2,000,000 and a grant
amount of $2,000,000. The loan shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 18 SF 001
and 18 SF 003 and the grant shall
be paid from Fund No. 18 SF 003,
Request No. 13173.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized and directed to accept
collateral as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in the file
referenced in this ordinance in order
to secure repayment of said loan.
Any security instrument shall be
prepared and approved by the Director of Law.

The City Record
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 18 SF 002.
Section 7. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited and expended
from Fund No. 18 SF 004.
Section 8. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 653-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of constructing
and installing replacement sewers
and rehabilitating and repairing
sewers at various locations by various methods; and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into one or more requirement contracts for the making of such
improvements,
for
a
one
year
period.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter, it is hereby determined to make the public
improvement of constructing and
installing replacement sewers and
rehabilitating and repairing sewers at various locations by various
methods, for the division of Water
Pollution Control, Department of
Public Utilities, by one or more
public
improvement
requirement
contracts duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive bidding, for a one year period.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into a written requirement
contract with the lowest responsible
bidders, after advertising for all
such estimated to be done during
the one year period, upon a unit
basis. In the discretion of the Board
of Control, separate requirement
contracts may be let for back-up
construction, installation and repair
services after advertising for all
such work estimated to be done during the one year period, upon a unit
basis.
Section 3. That the cost of the contract or contracts shall be charged
against the proper appropriation
account and the Director of Finance
shall certify thereon the amount of
the
initial
purchase
thereunder,
which purchase, together with all

1393

91
subsequent purchases, shall be made
on order of the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies pursuant to
a requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance.
Section 4. That the cost of the
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 54 SF
001, Request No. 38115.
Section 5. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 657-01.
By Councilmen Polensek, Gordon
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1265-99,
passed August 11, 1999, relating to
a grant from the Public Health Service, Department of Health and
Human Services for the Metropolitan
Medical Response System Development Program, and to enter into contract relative thereto.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 1265-99, passed August 11,
1999, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Safety is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $600,000, from the
Public Health Service, Department
of Health and Human Services, to
conduct the Metropolitan Medical
Response System Development, for
the purposes set forth in the application and according thereto; that
the Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the application for
said grant.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 1265-99, passed
August 11, 1999, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 703-01.
By Mayor White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Port Control to
execute two easements granting to
the Cleveland Electric Illuminating
Company certain easement rights in

92
properties located at Cleveland Hopkins
International
Airport
and
declaring said easement rights no
longer needed for public use; preferring certain representations for
purposes of the Trust Indenture
from the City of Cleveland to the
Chase Manhattan Trust Company,
National Association, as successor
trustee and authorizing the Director
of Port Control to apply to the bond
trustee for land release.
Whereas, The Cleveland Electric
Illuminating Company (“CEI”) has
requested the Director of Port Control to convey two (2) easement
rights in property located at Cleveland Hopkins International airport;
and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are no longer needed for
public use; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined that certain easement
interests in the following described
property are no longer needed for
public use:
Situated in the City of Cleveland
and the City of Brook Park, County
of Cuyahoga and State of Ohio, and
being a part of Lots 2 and 5, Section 19.
The right of way above referred
to is described as follows:
Beginning at iron pin monument
in the centerline of Postal Road
which is North 00° 51’ 19” West a
distance of 553.07 feet from iron pin
monument in the centerline of said
road at a point of curvature;
Thence South 00° 51’ 19” East
along said centerline of Postal Road
a distance of 343.76 feet to a point
therein;
Thence South 89° 08’ 41” West a
distance of 21.50 feet to a capped
5/8” iron pin (G&T #7554) found at
the most Northeasterly corner of
Parcel B-24 owned by the City of
Cleveland and shown by Lot Split
Plat of lands owned by the City of
Cleveland to be conveyed to the City
of Brook Park in Volume 289 Page
95 of Cuyahoga County Records;
Thence North 88° 40’ 08” West
along said Parcel of land so conveyed, a distance of 202.53 feet to a
5/8” iron pin found at the Northwest
corner of said Parcel; and also being
the Principal Place of Beginning for
the easement herein described;
Thence South 00° 50’ 01” East
along said City of Brook Park parcel, a distance of 284.44 feet to a
point of curvature;
Thence Southwesterly along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the right
and having a radius of 68.20 feet
and a chord of 98.27 feet which
bears South 45° 15’ 34” West, a distance of 109.73 feet to a point of tangency;
Thence North 88° 38’ 51” West
along a line being approximately
7.50 feet Northerly by rectangular
measurement and parallel with a 8’

The City Record
high chain-link fence, a distance of
643.05 feet to a point of curvature;
Thence Southwesterly and along
the arc of a curve deflecting to the
left and having a radius of 48.20 feet
and a chord of 40.74 feet which
bears South 66° 21’ 09” West, a distance of 42.06 feet to a point of tangency;
Thence South 41° 21’ 09” West a
distance of 692.28 feet to a point of
curvature;
Thence Southwesterly along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the right
and having a radius of 68.20 feet
and a chord of 57.56 feet which
bears South 66° 18’ 40” West, a distance of 59.42 feet to a point of tangency;
Thence North 88° 43’ 49” West, a
distance of 484.24 feet to a point of
curvature said line is parallel with
and 60 feet Southerly by rectangular measurement from the centerline
of the I-X Center Drive;
Thence Southwesterly along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the left
and having a radius of 48.20 feet
and a chord of 36.89 feet which
bears South 68° 46’ 11” West, a distance of 37.86 feet to a point of tangency;
Thence South 46° 16’ 11” West, a
distance of 79.06 feet to a point of
curvature;
Thence Southwesterly along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the right
and having a radius of 68.20 feet
and a chord of 52.20 feet which
bears South 68° 46’ 11” West, a distance of 53.56 feet to a point of tangency;
Thence North 88° 43’ 49” West, a
distance of 73.96 feet to an angle
point;
Thence North 01° 16’ 11” East, a
distance of 110.00 feet to a point;
Thence South 88° 43’ 49” East and
along a line, a distance of 696.41
feet to a point of curvature, said
line is parallel with and 40 feet
Southerly by rectangular measurement from the centerline of the I-X
Center Drive;
Thence Northeasterly along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the left
and having a radius of 48.20 feet
and a chord of 40.68 feet which
bears North 66° 18’ 40” East, a distance of 41.99 feet to a point of tangency;
Thence North 41° 21’ 09” East, a
distance of 692.28 feet to a point of
curvature;
Thence Northeasterly along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the right
and having a radius of 68.20 feet
and a chord of 57.65 feet which
bears 66° 21’ 09” East, a distance of
59.52 feet to a point of tangency;
Thence South 88° 38’ 51” East, a
distance of 643.05 feet to a point of
curvature;
Thence Northeasterly along the
arc of a curve deflecting to the left
and having a radius of 48.20 feet
and a chord of 69.45 feet which
bears North 45° 15’ 34” East, a distance of 77.55 feet to a point of tangency;
Thence North 00° 50’ 01” West, a
distance of 349.98 feet to approximately the Southerly edge of Concrete Access Drive;
Thence North 35° 55’ 22” East
along said Southerly edge of Access
Drive, a distance of 33.42 feet to a
point;

1394

June 20, 2001
Thence South 00° 50’ 01” East, a
distance of 92.32 feet to the Principal Place of Beginning and containing 65,003 square feet 1.4923
acres of land, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways and easements of record, prepared by Adache-Ciuni-Lynn Associates, Inc. in January, 2001.
Section 2. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined that certain easement
interests in the following described
property are no longer needed for
public use:
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, State of Ohio,
and being a part of Lot 3, Section 21.
The right of way above referred
to is described as follows:
Crossing No. 1
A strip of land 102 feet wide, 51
feet on each side of a centerline,
which centerline of right of way is
described s follows:
The centerline of right of way
enters Grantor’s premises from the
lands of the proposed Cleveland
Electric
Illuminating
Company’s
riser structure property, at a point
on Grantor’s Northwesterly property
line, approximately 90 feet Southwesterly from a west property corner of Grantor’s premises;
Thence from this point in a general
Easterly
direction
across
Grantor’s premises, approximately
515 feet to a point on Grantor’s Easterly property line, approximately
525 feet Southerly from Grantor’s
Northeast property corner, where
said centerline crosses to the lands
of the United States of America.
Crossing No. 2
A strip of land 102 feet wide, 51
feet on each side of a centerline,
which centerline of right of way is
described as follows:
The centerline of right of way
enters Grantor’s premises from the
lands of the proposed Cleveland
Electric
Illuminating
Company’s
riser structure property, at a point
on Grantor’s Northwesterly property
line, approximately 170 feet Southwesterly from a West property corner of Grantor’s premises;
Thence from this point in a general
Easterly
direction
across
Grantor’s premises, approximately
550 feet to a point on Grantor’s Easterly property line, approximately
600 feet Southerly from Grantor’s
Northeast property corner, where
said centerline crosses to the lands
of the United States of America.
Section 3. That the easements
shall be non-exclusive and the purpose of the easements shall be to
establish and maintain right-of-ways
upon, over, under and across certain
City-owned property at Cleveland
Hopkins International Airport for
lines for the transmission and distribution of electric current, including communication facilities.
Section 4. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
non-exclusive,
easement
interest
defined in Section 1 of this Ordi-

June 20, 2001
nance to CEI at the fair market
value of $11,100.00. That by and at
the direction of the Board of Control, the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies is authorized to convey
the non-exclusive, easement interest
described in Section 2 of this Ordinance to CEI at a price not less
than fair market value as determined by the Board of Control.
Section 5. That the duration of the
easements shall be perpetual, that
the easements shall revert back to
the City upon CEI’s abandonment of
the easements, that the easements
shall include reasonable rights of
entry to the City, that the easements
shall be assignable upon passage of
legislation by this Council authorizing the assignment that the easements shall require the grantee to
indemnify the City, maintain any
grantee improvements located within the easements, and pay any
applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 6. That CEI shall hold the
City harmless for damages to property or injuries to persons that may
arise from the use and occupation of
said lands.
Section 7. That the easements
shall include the right to erect,
inspect, operate, replace, relocate,
repair, patrol, and maintain upon,
over, under, and along the rights of
way, all necessary structures, wires,
cables, and other fixtures used in
connection with the transmission
and distribution of electric current,
including communication facilities,
and the right of reasonable ingress
and egress upon.
Section 8. That the conveyances
referred to above shall be made by
Official Deed of Easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Port Control
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The Deeds of Easement shall contain such additional terms and conditions as are required by law to
protect the interests of the parties.
The Directors of Port Control and
Law are authorized to execute such
other documents, including without
limitation, contracts for right of
entry, as may be necessary to effect
the construction of the rights-of-way
within the property described above,
so long as any such documents are
not inconsistent with the terms of
this easement.
Section 9. That the City acknowledges, states and affirms, pursuant
to Article IX of the Trust Indenture
from the City of Cleveland to the
Chase Manhattan Trust Company,
National Association, as successor
trustee, dated November 1, 1976, as
amended (the “Indenture”), that the
City desires and requests that certain portions of its land heretofore
subject to the Indenture be released
and removed from all obligations
under said Indenture. Further, the
City
acknowledges,
states
and
affirms that it is not in default
under said Indenture; that release of
such land is necessary in order to
serve the public purpose of providing lines for the transmission and
distribution
of
electric
current,
including communication facilities;
and that certain public improvements will be constructed on the
land to be released.
Section 10. That the Director of
Port Control is authorized to apply

The City Record
to the Chase Manhattan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee, for release of the
lands described in Sections 1 and 2,
pursuant to the Indenture.
Section 11. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 707-01.
By Councilmen Dolan, O’Malley
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1000-2000,
passed June 19, 2000, as amended by
Ordinance
No.
1590-2000,
passed
November 27, 2000, relating to the
public improvement of rehabilitating sewers on Westpark and Lydian Roads.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 3 of Ordinance No. 1000-2000, passed June 19,
2000, as amended by Ordinance No.
1590-2000, passed November 27, 2000,
is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 54 SF
001, from any fund or funds to
which are credited any allocations
received from the Northeast Ohio
Regional Sewer District to contribute to the cost of this improvement, and an amount not to exceed
$147,068.13 from Ward 21’s Neighborhood Equity Funds, Fund 10 SF
166, provided that any unspent portion of said funds not needed for the
project shall remain credited to
Ward
21’s
Neighborhood
Equity
Fund allocation.
Section 2. That existing Section 3
of Ordinance No. 1000-2000, passed
June 19, 2000, as amended by Ordinance No. 1590-2000, passed November 27, 2000, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001, without
the signature of the Mayor.
Ord. No. 711-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development
to
enter
into
an
Em-

1395

93
powerment Zone Acquisition and Development Loan and Grant Agreement with Lassi Enterprises, L.L.C.
to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance the
acquisition of real property for
future development.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into an Empowerment Zone Acquisition and Development Loan and Grant Agreement
with Lassi Enterprises, L.L.C. to partially finance the acquisition of the
following real property for future
development: Permanent Parcel Nos.
118-11-004, 118-11-005, 118-11-006A, 11811-006B, 118-11-007, 118-11-008, 118-11009, 118-11-010 and 118-11-011.
Section 2. That the terms of said
loan and grant shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 711-01-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed a loan
amount of $1,200,000 and a grant
amount of $800,000. The loan shall
be paid from Fund Nos. 18 SF 001
and 18 SF 003 and the grant shall
be paid from Fund No. 18 SF 003,
Request No. 13162.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept collateral as
set forth in the Executive Summary
contained in the file referenced
herein in order to secure repayment
of said loan. Any security instrument
shall
be
prepared
and
approved by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 18 SF 002.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited and expended
from Fund No. 18 SF 004.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

The City Record

94

June 20, 2001

Ord. No. 713-01.
By Councilman Johnson (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Shaker Square of Ohio
LLC (by Center Point Properties) for 15 Directional Signs; 11 of which are in the public right of way of Moreland Blvd. S.E., Drexmore Rd. S.E., North Moreland Blvd. & Shaker Blvd.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit, revocable at the will of
Council, and assignable by the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to Shaker
Square of Ohio LLC (by Center Point Properties, as their Authorized Agent), its successors and assigns, for the
construction, use and maintenance of fifteen (15) Directional Signs to be mounted on new or existing privately
owned posts, and one (1) to be mounted on a utility pole (*with separate permission from pole owner*); eleven
(11) of the aforementioned signs will encroach into the public right-of-way of Moreland Blvd. S.E., Drexmore Rd.
S.E., North Moreland Blvd., & Shaker Blvd., and are described as follows:
SIGN LOCATION & DIRECTION:

TYPE OF MOUNTING POST:

Shaker Boulevard (Westbound)
Moreland Circle (Northeast)
North Moreland (Northbound)
North Moreland (Southbound)
Shaker Boulevard (Eastbound)
Moreland Circle (Southwest)
South Moreland (Southbound)
Drexmore (Westbound)
South Moreland (Northbound)
Drexmore (Westbound)
Drexmore (Westbound)

Existing Post
New Post
New Post
New Post
New Post
New Post
New Post
New Post
New Post
*Existing Utility Pole*
New Post

Section 2. That said Directional Signs will be placed within the public right-of-way as aforesaid in Section 1,
and will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That all other required permits, including a building Permit, shall be obtained before any
signs are erected.
Section 3. That nothing in the ordinance grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right, privilege
or permission to use or to attach or affix any object to poles except as described in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 4. That this permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 714-01.
By Councilmen Lewis, Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan and an
Economic
Development
Initiative
Grant Agreement with Eliza Bryant
Center to provide economic development assistance to partially finance
the acquisition of the land, building,
and other assets of Madonna Hall,
Inc. located at 1906 East 82nd Street
and the new construction and building renovations, including all associated costs, on the property located
at 7201 Wade Park Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan with
Eliza Bryant Center to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the acquisition of
the land, building, and other assets
of Madonna Hall, Inc. located at

1906 East 82nd Street and the new
construction and building renovations, including all associated costs,
on the property located at 7201
Wade Park Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
(the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a grant
agreement with Eliza Bryant Center
to receive Economic Development
Initiative Grant funds to partially
finance
the
above-described
Improvement.
Section 3. That the terms of said
loan and grant shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 714-01-A.
Section 4. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed a loan
amount of $5,000,000.00 and a grant
amount of $1,250,000.00. The loan
shall be paid from Fund No. 18 SF
001 and 18 SF 003 and the grant
shall be paid from Fund No. 18 SF
003, Request No. 13154.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized and directed to accept
collateral as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in the file
referenced in Section 2 of this ordinance in order to secure repayment
of said loan. Any security instru-

1396

ment
shall
be
prepared
and
approved by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 18 SF 002.
Section 7. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited and expended
from Fund No. 18 SF 004.
Section 8. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 9. That a condition of the
loan and grant agreement authorized herein shall be that Eliza
Bryant Center shall transfer Permanent Parcel Nos. 119-02-029, 119-02030, 119-02-031, 119-02-032, 119-02-033,
119-02-034, 119-02-036, 119-02-037, and
119-02-072 to the City of Cleveland
within six (6) months after the relocation of all residents from Madonna Hall.

June 20, 2001
Section 10. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 735-01.
By Councilman Britt.
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of the First Unnamed Alley
hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the 17th day of July
2000, the Council of the City of
Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
947-2000 declaring its intention to
vacate a portion of the First Unnamed Alley, hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 947-2000
has been served upon the owners of
all the property abutting the First
Unnamed Alley by said Resolution,
notifying the said property owners
of the time and place at which
objections can be heard before the
Board of Revision of Assessments,
and
Whereas, on the 24th day of April,
2001, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of the First Unnamed Alley, hereinafter
described,
in
accordance
with the provisions of Section 176 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied that there is good cause for
vacating the First Unnamed Alley,
hereinafter described and that it
will not be detrimental to the general interest and ought to be made;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
The First Unnamed Alley, (5.00 feet
in width) as established by the
Luna Heights Subdivision recorded
in Volume 42, Page 19 of Cuyahoga
County Map Records and extending
Southerly from the Southerly line of
Woodland Avenue S.E. (60.00 feet
wide) to the Northerly line of Grandview Avenue S.E. (40.00 feet wide),
be and the same is hereby vacated.
Section 2. That the Clerk of Council be and she is hereby directed to
notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga
County of the vacation of all that
portion of The First Unnamed Alley,
herein provided by sending him a
copy of this ordinance.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure, and provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
its approval by the Mayor; otherwise
it shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

The City Record
Ord. No. 736-01.
By Councilmen Cintron, Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
execute an easement granting to
F.C. Southridge Corp. certain easement rights in property located
under the West 3rd Street ramp necessary to construct and use an
entrance/exit drive for a period of
ten years, with one ten-year option
to renew; declaring said easement
rights no longer needed for public
use; authorizing said Director to
issue a permit to F.C. Southridge
Corp. to construct a drive for vehicular and pedestrian access to and
from the existing Riverview Parking Lot; and authorizing the Director of Public Service to lease to F.C.
Southridge Corp. certain City-owned
land adjacent to West 3rd Street, for
a period not to exceed ten years,
with one ten-year option to renew.
Whereas, F.C. Southridge Corp.
has requested the Director of Public
Service to convey certain easement
rights in property located under the
West 3rd Street ramp; and
Whereas, the easement rights to
be granted are no longer needed for
public use; and
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
owns certain property known as
Permanent Parcel Numbers 122-18014 and 122-18-015 which are not
needed for public use for the next
ten years; and
Whereas, F.C. Southridge Corp.
has proposed to lease said property
from the City; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, it is hereby found and
determined that an easement interest in the following described property is no longer needed for public
use:
Drive Easement
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio and known as being part of
West 3rd Street (as widened) of part
of S.S. Stones Survey of Central
Tract of part of Original Two Acre
Lots No. 218 as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 2 of Maps, Page
31 of Cuyahoga County Records and
is further bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at a stone monument
found in the center line of Scranton
Road S.W. (variable width) at is
intersection with the center line of
West 3rd Street (variable width);
Thence South 33° 23' 54" East,
along said center line of West 3rd
Street a distance of 27.62 feet;
Thence North 60° 50' 39" East, a
distance of 68.64 feet, to the Northeasterly right of way line of West
3rd street at its intersection with
the Southeasterly right of way line
of said Scranton Road S.W.;
Thence South 33° 23' 54" East,
along said Northeasterly right of
way line of West 3rd Street a distance of 11.90 feet to the principal
place of beginning of the land herein described;
Course 1: Thence South 33° 24' 54"
East, continuing along said Northeasterly right of way line of West

1397

95
3rd Street, a distance of 66.00 feet;
Course 2: Thence South 56° 36' 06"
West, a distance of 48.00 feet;
Course 3: Thence North 33° 23' 54"
West, a distance of 66.00 feet;
Course 4: Thence North 56° 36' 06"
East, a distance of 48.00 feet to the
principal place of beginning and
containing 0.0727 acres (3,168 square
feet) of land.
Be the same more or less but subject to all legal highway.
Section 2. That the easement shall
be non-exclusive and the purpose of
the easement shall be to construct
and use an entrance/exit drive
under the West 3rd Street ramp.
Section 3. That by and at the
direction of the Board of Control,
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies is authorized to convey the
above-described, non-exclusive easement to F.C. Southridge Corp. at a
price not less than fair market
value as determined by the Board of
Control.
Section 4. That the duration of the
easement shall be for ten (10) years,
with one option exercisable by the
Director of Public Service, to renew
for an additional ten-year term, and
cancellable upon thirty days written
notice by said Director; that the
easement shall include reasonable
rights of entry to the City; that the
easement shall not be assignable;
that the easement shall require the
grantee to indemnify the City; provide reasonable insurance; maintain
any grantee improvements located
within the easement; and pay any
applicable taxes and assessments.
Section 5. That the conveyance
referred to above shall be made by
Official Deed of Easement prepared
by the Director of Law and executed by the Director of Public Service
on behalf of the City of Cleveland.
The Deed of Easement shall contain
such additional terms and conditions
as are required to protect the interests of the parties. The Directors of
Public Service and Law are authorized to execute such other documents, including without limitation,
contracts for right of entry, as may
be necessary to effect the construction of the entrance/exit drive under
the West 3rd Street ramp.
Section 6. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to F.C. Southridge Corp., its successors and assigns, to construct a
drive for vehicular and pedestrian
access to and from the existing
Riverview
Parking
Lot
located
under the Scranton Road Bridge, as
described as follows:
AREA OF ENCROACHMENT UNDER
THE SCRANTON ROAD S.W.
BRIDGE OVER THE
CSX RAILROAD
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, known as being an encroachment area within the right-of-way of
Scranton Road S.W., 66 feet in
width, of part of Original Two Acre
Lot
Number
217,
bounded
and
described as follows:
Beginning in the Northwesterly
line of Scranton Road S.W., at its
intersection with the Northeasterly
line of West 3rd Street, 70 feet in
width;
Thence North 60° 16' 39" East
along said Northwesterly line of
Scranton Road S.W., 283.39 feet to a
5/8" capped iron pin set at its intersection with a Westerly line of the

96
Ohio Canal Lands, now in the name
of the CSX Railroad and the principal place of beginning of the area
herein intended to be described:
Course No. 1: Thence South 17° 30'
30" East along said Westerly line of
the Ohio Canal Lands, 67.53 feet to
a 5/8" capped iron pin set at its
intersection with the southeasterly
line of said Scranton Road S.W.;
Course No. 2: Thence South 60° 16'
39" West along said Southeasterly
line of Scranton Road S.W., 17.19
feet to its intersection with the
Southeasterly prolongation of the
Northeasterly face of the Southwesterly bridge abutment;
Course No. 3: Thence North 29° 40'
45" West along said Southeasterly
prolongation, along the Northeasterly face of said abutment and along
the
Northwesterly
prolongation
thereof, 66.00 feet to its intersection
with the aforementioned Northwesterly line of Scranton Road S.W.;
Course No. 4: Thence North 60° 16'
39" East along said Northwesterly
line, 31.43 feet to the principal place
of
beginning,
containing
1,604
square feet of land (0.0368 acres),
according to a survey by Garrett &
Associates, Inc., Registered Engineers and Surveyors,; Inc., revised
June 26, 2000, be the same more or
less.
The bearings used herein are
based on an assumed meridian and
are used only to denote angles.
Section 7. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of Council and assignable by
the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to F.C. Southridge Corp., its successors and assigns, to encroach
upon that portion of West 3rd Street
(20 feet wide) extending northerly
from the northerly line of Scranton
Road S.W. to the southerly dock line
of the Cuyahoga River.
Section 8. That the access drive
will be placed within the public
right-of-way as aforesaid in Section
6, and will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the Commissioner of
Engineering and Construction. That
all other required permits, including
a Building Permit, shall be obtained
before said access drive is constructed.
Section 9. That this permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been property indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.
Section 10. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Service is authorized to lease to F.C.
Southridge Corp., certain property
which is determined to be not needed for public use for the term of the
lease and which is described as follows:
0.2762 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
S.S. Stone’s Central Tract as shown

The City Record
by the recorded plat in Volume 2,
Page 31 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records, and further known as
being part of lands acquired by the
City of Cleveland for the Central
Viaduct, 100 feet wide, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a Stone Monument in
the centerline of West 3rd Street, 70
feet wide and variable, (formerly
Seneca
Street,
formerly
Central
Way) at its intersection with the
centerline of the Central Viaduct,
100 feet wide;
Thence North 34° 01' 05" West
along the centerline of West 3rd
Street, 59.45 feet to its intersection
with the Northwesterly line of the
Central Viaduct;
Thence South 23° 14' 10" West
along the Northwesterly line of the
Central Viaduct, 41.61 feet to an iron
pin set at its intersection with the
Southwesterly line of West 3rd
Street, and the principal place of
beginning
of
the
parcel
herein
described;
Thence South 34° 01' 05" East
along the Southwesterly line of
West 3rd Street, 80.45 feet to an iron
pin set at its intersection with the
Northwesterly line of the Inner-Belt
Freeway (I-90), 150 feet wide;
Thence Southwesterly along the
curved Northwesterly line of the
Inner-Belt Freeway, being the arc of
a curve deflecting to the left, 219.44
feet to an iron pin set at its intersection with the Northeasterly line
of West 4th Street, 50 feet wide, said
arc having a radius of 3894.72 feet,
a central angle of 03° 13' 42", and
a chord which bears South 31° 40'
50" West, 219.41 feet;
Thence North 34° 00' 25" West
along the Northeasterly line of West
4th Street, 42.15 feet to an iron pin
set at its intersection with the
Northwesterly line of the Central
Viaduct;
Thence North 23° 14' 10" East
along the Northwesterly line of the
Central Viaduct, 237.75 feet to the
principal place of beginning, and
containing 12,031 square feet or
0.2762 acres of land according to the
survey by Donald G. Bohning &
Associates, Inc. dated December,
1998.
The courses used in this description are referenced to an assumed
meridian and are used to indicate
angles only.
0.4041 Acres
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga, and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
S.S. Stone’s Central Tract as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 2,
Page 31 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records, and further known as
being part of lands acquired by the
City of Cleveland for the Central
Viaduct, 100 feet wide, and bounded
and described as follows:
Beginning at a Stone Monument in
the centerline of West 3rd Street, 70
feet wide and variable, (formerly
Seneca
Street,
formerly
Central
Way) at its intersection with the
centerline of the Central Viaduct,
100 feet wide;
Thence North 34° 01' 05" West
along the centerline of West 3rd
Street, 59.45 feet to its intersection
with the Northwesterly line of the

1398

June 20, 2001
Central Viaduct;
Thence North 23° 14' 10" East
along the Northwesterly line of the
Central Viaduct, 41.61 feet to an iron
pin set at its intersection with the
Northeasterly
line
of
West
3rd
Street, and the principal place of
beginning
of
the
parcel
herein
described;
Thence North 23° 14' 10" East
along the Northwesterly line of the
Central Viaduct, being also the
Southeasterly line of Parcel 2 of
land
conveyed
to
Tower
City
Riverview Company by deed recorded in Volume 98-13761, Page 1 of the
Official Records of Cuyahoga County, 183.93 feet to an iron pin set at
its intersection with the Southwesterly line of the former Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad right-of-way;
Thence South 35° 12' 39" East
along the Southwesterly line of said
railroad right-of-way, 117.35 feet to
an iron pin set at its intersection
with the Northwesterly line of Parcel 3 of said land conveyed to Tower
City Riverview Company;
Thence South 23° 14' 10" West
along the Northwesterly line of said
land
conveyed
to
Tower
City
Riverview Company, being also the
Southeasterly line of the Central
Viaduct, 87.08 feet to an iron pin set
at its intersection with the Northwesterly line of the Inner-Belt Freeway (I-90), 150 feet wide;
Thence Southwesterly along the
curved Northwesterly line of the
Inner-Belt Freeway, being the arc of
a curve deflecting to the left, 89.82
feet to an iron pin set at its intersection with the Northeasterly line
of West 3rd Street, said arc having
a radius of 3894.72 feet, a central
angle of 01° 19' 17", and a chord
which bears South 35° 04' 02" West,
89.82 feet;
Thence North 34° 01' 05" West
along the Northeasterly line of West
3rd Street, 97.00 feet to the principal
place of beginning, and containing
17,604 square feet or 0.4041 acres of
land according to the survey by
Donald G. Bohning & Associates,
Inc. dated December, 1998.
The courses used in this description are referenced to an assumed
meridian and are used to indicate
angles only.
Section 11. That the term of the
lease authorized by this ordinance
shall not exceed ten years, with one
option exercisable by the Director of
Public Service, to renew for an additional ten-year term, and cancellable
upon thirty days written notice by
said director.
Section 12. That the property
described in Section 9 shall be
leased at fair market value as
determined by the Board of Control.
Section 13. That the lease may
authorize
the
lessee
to
make
improvements to the leased premises subject to the approval of appropriate City agencies and officials.
Section 14. That the lease shall be
prepared by the Director of Law.
The lease shall contain a provision
requiring all improvements to the
leased premises to be made at the
expense of F.C. Southridge Corp., a
provision
requiring
prevailing
wages to be paid on construction
projects constructed on the leased
premises,
the
amphitheater,
and

June 20, 2001
parking lot, a provision requiring
F.C. Southridge Corp. to use best
efforts to purchase tents for the construction of the amphitheater from
City of Cleveland businesses, a provision prohibiting F.C. Southridge
Corp.
from
placing
advertising,
other than signs identifying the
amphitheater, on the roof of the
amphitheater and shall contain such
authorized terms and conditions as
are required to protect the interests
of the City.
Section 15. That prior to execution
of the lease, the Councilperson representing the ward in which the
leased property is located, the Chairperson of the Public Service Committee, and the Director of Public
Service shall receive a copy the
lease.
Section 16. That the Director of
Public Service and the Director of
Law, and other appropriate City officials, are authorized to execute such
other documents and certificates,
and take such other actions as may
be necessary or appropriate to effect
the lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 17. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

Ord. No. 738-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to expend Community Development Block Grant
funds for the operation of the Project Clean Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 27 from the
United States Government, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to expend Community Development Block Grant
funds in the amount of Seven Hundred Thousand Dollars ($700,000.00),
from Fund No. 14 SF 027, Request
No. 36384, for the operation of the
Project Clean Program.
Section 2. That prior to expending
funds hereunder the Director of
Community Development shall enter
into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Properties for the
purposes described in Section 1
above.

The City Record
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 739-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development
to
expend
Federal
HOME
Program
funds
for
the
administration of Housing Rehabilitation Programs.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received Year 2001 Federal
HOME Program grant from the
United States Government, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to expend Federal HOME
Program funds for the administration of the Housing Rehabilitation
Programs.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into one or more
contracts for professional services
related to inspecting properties to
comply with Section 8 Housing Quality Standards (HQS).
Section 3. That the aggregate cost
of the expenditure and the contracts
authorized in Sections 1 and 2 shall
be in an amount not to exceed
$500,000.00, and shall be paid from
Fund No. 13 SF 929.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 741-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into one or
more contracts to provide for the
demolition, removal or the boarding
up of structures within the City of
Cleveland.

1399

97
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 27 from the
United States Government, and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into one or
more contracts for the demolition,
removal or the boarding up of
structures within the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract or contracts shall be in an
amount not to exceed $3,450,000.00
and shall be paid from Fund No. 14
SF 027 RL 36383.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment
under said program and to utilize
said repayments and other program
income in a revolving fund for making additional expenditures under
this program, and such funds are
hereby appropriated for that purpose.
Section 4. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes,
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment
of
fees
under
the
City’s
Demolition/Board Up Program.
Section 5. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development be and is hereby authorized to
enter into forbearance agreements
with any recipient of a validly existing loan, administered by the City
under the City’s Demolition/Board
Up Program.
Section 6. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to collect from persons or
entities from whom the City is collecting demolition costs an amount
equal to any amount spent for services related to collection of demolition cost, such as title searches,
credit bureau reports, and document
filing fees. Any funds collected shall
be deposited into Fund No. 14.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

The City Record

98

June 20, 2001

Ord. No. 742-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley, Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to make alterations and modifications in
Contract No. 55466 for the rehabilitation of West 32nd Street between Walbrook Avenue and Oak Park Avenue
with Rockport Construction and Materials, for the Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized to make the following alterations and
modifications in Contract No. 55466 with Rockport Construction and Materials for the rehabilitation of West 32nd
Street between Walbrook Avenue and Oak Park Avenue, for the Department of Public Service:
Subsidiary Additions
Correcting large areas of soft subgrade
necessary to stabilize pavement and
providing for a police officer to
direct traffic by Cullen Bryant
Elementary School . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $18,000.00
Original Contract Amount
Subsidiary Additions
REVISED CONTRACT AMOUNT

$ 327,314.00
+ 18,000.00
$ 345,314.00

which alteration has been recommended in writing by the said Director of Public Service, countersigned by the
Mayor, and consented to by the surety on said contract, which price to be paid therefor has been agreed upon
in writing and signed by the Director of Public Service and the Contractor. This alteration will cause an increase
in the amount of the original contract in the sum of $18,000.00, to be paid from Fund. No. 10 SF 166, Request No.
34456.
Section 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 743-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various hand and power
tools, for the various divisions of
City government, for a period not to
exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of various hand and power tools, in the
approximate amount as purchased
during the preceding term to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the various divisions of
City government. Bids shall be
taken in such manner as to permit
an award to be made for all items
as a single contract, or by separate
contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board of
Control shall determine. Alternate
bids for a period less than two years
may be taken if deemed desirable
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies until provision is made
for the requirements for the entire
term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subse-

quent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 43012)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 744-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of various data entry services to convert 2000 wage and tax
statements from paper documents
and magnetic tape to machine readable magnetic tapes, for the Division of Taxation, Department of
Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of keying and conversion of 2000 wage

1400

and tax statements from paper documents
and
magnetic
tape
to
machine readable magnetic tapes
per CCA specifications, including
furnishing
media,
transportation
and security in the approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Taxation, Department of
Finance. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. The cost of said contract shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchase thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by the Director of Finance. (RL
27893)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

June 20, 2001
Ord. No. 745-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of building materials and
used paving brick, for the various
divisions of City government, for a
period not to exceed two years.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the requirements for the period of two
years of the necessary items of
building materials and used paving
brick, in the estimated sum of
$2,000,000.00 to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the various divisions of City government.
Bids shall be taken in such manner
as to permit an award to be made
for all items as a single contract, or
by separate contract for each or any
combination of said items as the
Board of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than
two years may be taken if deemed
desirable by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies until provision is made for the requirements
for the entire term.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 43013)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 799-01.
By Councilmen Brady, O’Malley
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of improving
the Kadel Avenue sewer, and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into contract for the
making of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement
of
improving
the
Kadel
Avenue sewer, for the Division of

The City Record
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, by contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38124.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 805-01.
By Councilman Britt (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to vacate
a portion of Mt. Overlook Avenue,
S.E. hereinafter described.
Whereas, on the 12th day of February 2001, the Council of the City
of Cleveland adopted Resolution No.
1883-2001 declaring its intention to
vacate a portion of Mt. Overlook
Avenue S.E., hereinafter described.
Whereas, notice of the adoption of
the above Resolution No. 1883-2001
has been served upon the owners of
all the property abutting Mt. Overlook Avenue S.E. affected by said
Resolution, notifying the said property owners of the time and place
at which objections can be heard
before the Board of Revision of
Assessments, and
Whereas, on the 24th day of April,
2001, the Board of Revision of
Assessments approved the vacation
of the Mt. Overlook Avenue S.E.,
hereinafter described, in accordance
with the provisions of Section 176 of
the Charter of the City of Cleveland;
and
Whereas, this Council is satisfied
that there is good cause for vacating Mt. Overlook Avenue S.E., hereinafter described and that it will not
be detrimental to the general interest and ought to be made; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That all that portion of
Mt. Overlook Avenue S.E. (40.00 feet
wide),
extending
Easterly
from
Easterly line of Martin Luther King,
Jr. Drive S.E. (130.00 feet wide) to
the Southerly prolongation of the
Easterly line of Sublot Number 51 in
the East Boulevard Subdivision as
shown in Volume 54, Page 9 of
Cuyahoga County Records, be and
the same is hereby vacated.

1401

99
Section 2. That there be and hereby is reserved to the City of Cleveland
easement
or
payment
of
charges to Cleveland Public Power,
and an easement for existing Division of Water equipment, Division
of Water Pollution Control equipment, and Dominion East Ohio Gas
equipment.
The description of the easement is
as follows:
That portion of Mt. Overlook
Avenue
S.E.
(40.00
feet
wide),
extending Easterly from the Easterly line of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Boulevard S.E. (130.00 feet wide) to
the Southerly prolongation of the
Easterly line of Sublot Number 51 in
the East Boulevard Subdivision as
shown in Volume 54, Page 9 of
Cuyahoga County Records.
That no structures shall be hereafter
erected
on
the
premises
described in this easement except
those
constructed
in
accordance
with the approval of, and in compliance with, plans approved by the
Commissioner of the Division of
Water Pollution Control, the Division of Water, Cleveland Public
Power, and Dominion East Ohio Gas
Company, of the City of Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Clerk of Council be and is hereby directed to notify the Auditor of Cuyahoga County
of the vacation of all that portion of
Mt. Overlook Avenue S.E., herein
provided by sending him a copy of
this Ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 811-01.
By Councilmen Cimperman, Melena and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Flats Realty, LTD. to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the improvement
of real property located at 955 West
Street
and
the
acquisition
and
installation of machinery and equipment.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with Flats Realty, LTD. to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance the improvement
of real property located at 955 West
Street
and
the
acquisition
and
installation of machinery and equipment.
Section 2. That the term of said
loan shall be in accordance with the
terms as set forth in the Executive
Summary contained in File No. 81101-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed One Hundred
Sixty
Thousand
Dollars

100
($160,000.00), and shall be paid from
Fund No. 12 SF 954, Request No.
26657, which funds are appropriated
for this purpose.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept the collateral
as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in the file referenced above in order to secure
repayment of said loan. Any security instrument shall be prepared and
approved by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 12 SF 958.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and expend such fees to
cover costs incurred in the preparation of the loan application, closing
and servicing of the loan. Such fees
shall be deposited to and expended
from Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees
Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provide it receives, the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 816-01.
By Councilmen Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of tire recapping, for the
Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance, Department of Public Service.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service is hereby authorized
to make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland,
Ohio,
1976,
for
the
requirements for the period of one
year for the necessary items of tire
recapping
in
the
approximate
amount as purchased during the preceding year, to be purchased by the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon a unit basis for the Division of Motor Vehicle Maintenance,
Department of Public Service. Bids
shall be taken in such manner as to
permit an award to be made for all
items as a single contract, or by separate contract for each or any combination of said items as the Board
of Control shall determine.
Alternate bids for a period less than a
year may be taken if deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies until provision
is made for the requirements for the
entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be charged against

The City Record
the proper appropriation account
and the Director of Finance shall
certify thereon the amount of the
initial purchase thereunder, which
purchase, together with all subsequent purchases, shall be made on
order of the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies pursuant to a
requisition against such contract
duly certified by the Director of
Finance. (RL 29590)
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 820-01.
By Councilmen Dolan, O’Malley
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the sewer and
curbing in the Melbourne Avenue
area, and authorizing the Director
of Public Utilities to enter into contract
for
the
making
of
such
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing
the sewer and curbing in the Melbourne Avenue area, for the Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis. The Director shall
include as an alternate or additional bid, the rehabilitating or replacing of curbs in the Melborne Avenue
area.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38125.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

1402

June 20, 2001
Ord. No. 821-01.
By Councilmen Dolan, O’Malley
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the Fairway
Drive area sewer, and authorizing
the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into contract for the making
of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing
the Fairway Drive area sewer, for
the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities,
by contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38122.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 822-01.
By Councilmen Dolan and Patmon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, Section 1, and Section 2 of
Ordinance
No.
468-2000,
passed
November 13, 2000; to repeal Section
3 of said ordinance; and to renumber existing Section 4 to new Section 3, relating to a data network,
for the Department of Port Control.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title of Ordinance No. 468-2000, passed November
13, 2000, is hereby amended to read
as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by requirement
contract of network hardware and
accessories, including maintenance
and installation, if necessary, for
the Department of Port Control.

June 20, 2001
Section 2. That the existing title
of Ordinance No. 468-2000, passed
November 13, 2000, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That Section 1 and Section 2 of Ordinance No. 468-2000,
passed November 13, 2000, are hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Port Control is hereby authorized to
make a written requirement contract in accordance with the Charter
and the Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, for the
period of one year for the necessary
items of network hardware, including, but not limited to routers,
switches, firewalls, and management software necessary for the
operation of a data network system,
including maintenance and installation, if necessary, in the approximate amount of $150,000.00, to be
purchased by the Commissioner of
Purchases and Supplies upon a unit
basis for the Department of Port
Control. Bids shall be taken in such
manner as to permit an award to be
made for all items as a single contract, or by separate contract for
each or any combination of said
items as the Board of Control shall
determine. Alternate bids for a period less than a year may be taken if
deemed desirable by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies
until provision is made for the
requirements for the entire year.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall not exceed $150,000.00
and shall be charged against the
proper appropriation account and
the Director of Finance shall certify thereon the amount of the initial
purchases thereunder, which purchase, together with all subsequent
purchases, shall be made on order of
the Commissioner of Purchases and
Supplies pursuant to a requisition
against such contract duly certified
by
the
Director
of
Finance.
(Request No. 8269).
Section 4. That existing Section 1
and existing Section 2 of Ordinance
No. 468-2000, passed November 13,
2000, are hereby repealed.
Section 5. That existing Section 3
of Ordinance No. 468-2000, passed
November
13,
2000,
is
hereby
repealed.
Section 6. That existing Section 4
of Ordinance No. 468-2000, passed
November 13, 2000, is hereby renumbered to new Section 3.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 824-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Alcohol and Drug Addiction Services Board of Cuyahoga County for
the 2001-2002 Center Point/Student
Assistance/Drug
Prevention
Program; and to enter into a contract
for the lease of facilities needed to
implement the program.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the
approximate
amount
of
$480,309.00, and any other funds as
they become available during the
grant term, from the Alcohol and
Drug Addiction Services Board of
Cuyahoga County, to conduct the
2001-2002
Center
Point/Student
Assistance/Drug
Prevention
Program, for the purposes set forth in
the program description and according thereto; that the Director of Public Health is hereby authorized to
file all papers and execute all documents necessary to receive the
funds under said grant; and that
said funds be and they hereby are
appropriated for the purposes set
forth in the program description for
said grant.
Section
2.
That
the
program
description for said grant, File No.
824-01-A, made a part hereof as if
fully rewritten herein, including the
obligation of the City of Cleveland
to provide cash matching funds in
the sum of $15,000, to be paid from
Fund No. 01-500500-639905, is hereby
approved in all respects.
Section 3. That notwithstanding
and as an exception to the provisions of Chapters 181 and 183 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of Public
Health is hereby authorized to lease
a facility for the implementation of
the grant. The term of the lease
shall not exceed the grant period
and shall be payable from the fund
or funds to which are credited the
grant proceeds accepted pursuant to
Section 1 of this ordinance.
That the lease may authorize the
City to make improvements to the
leased premises under terms to be
determined by the parties consistent
with the purposes of the grant. That
the lease may provide for the City’s
payment of appropriate utility and
other operating costs of the leased
premises.
That the lease shall be prepared
by the Director of Law and shall
contain such authorized terms and
conditions as are required to protect
the interests of the City.
That
the
Director
of
Public
Health, the Director of Law, and
other appropriate City officials, are
authorized to execute such other
documents and certificates, and take
such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate to effect the
lease authorized by this ordinance.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 825-01.
By Councilmen Gordon and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Health to
apply for and accept a grant from
the Ohio Department of Health for
the State Childhood Lead Poisoning
Prevention Program.

1403

101
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Health is hereby authorized
to apply for and accept a grant in
the amount of $92,000, from the Ohio
Department of Health, to conduct
the State Childhood Lead Poisoning
Prevention Program, for the purposes set forth in the executive summary and according thereto; that the
Director of Public Health is hereby
authorized to file all papers and
execute all documents necessary to
receive the funds under said grant;
and that said funds be and they
hereby are appropriated for the purposes set forth in the executive summary for said grant.
Section 2. That the executive summary for said grant, File No. 825-01A, made a part hereof as if fully
rewritten herein, is hereby approved
in all respects.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 829-01.
By Councilmen Johnson, Melena
and
Patmon
(by
departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a First
Amendment to Contract No. 56406
with Buckeye Area Development
Corporation for additional administrative costs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a First
Amendment to Contract No. 56406
with Buckeye Area Development
Corporation for additional administrative costs and to increase the
amount of the contract by $37,500.00,
for a total of $152,500.00. Said
increase shall be paid from Fund
No. 14 SF 027, Request No. 36392.
Section 2. That this First Amendment
shall
be
prepared
and
approved by the Director of Law
and shall contain such provisions as
he deems necessary to protect the
public interest.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

102
Ord. No. 830-01.
By Councilmen Jones, O’Malley
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating
and
replacing
the
Naples
Avenue sewer, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into contract for the making of such
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing
the Naples Avenue sewer, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38126.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 831-01.
By Councilmen Jones, O’Malley
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing the East 143rd
Street area sewer, and authorizing
the Director of Public Utilities to
enter into contract for the making
of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing
the East 143rd Street area sewer, for
the Division of Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities,
by contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.

The City Record
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38119.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 836-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into contracts
with Cleveland Action to Support
Housing (CASH) for administrative
costs to implement housing rehabilitation, new housing construction
and commercial redevelopment loan
programs.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with Cleveland Action to Support
Housing (CASH) for administrative
costs to implement housing rehabilitation, new housing construction and commercial redevelopment
loan programs in the City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the aggregate cost
of said contract shall be in an
amount not to exceed $500,000.00,
and shall be paid from Fund No. 14
SC 027, Request No. 36388.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 837-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a contract
with the non-profit agency to operate a community garden program.

1404

June 20, 2001
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with one or more non-profit agencies
to operate a community gardening
program
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract or contracts shall be in an
amount not to exceed $95,000.00, and
shall be paid from Fund No. 14 SC
027 Request No. 36387.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 839-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance appropriating
Community
Development
Block Grant funds and Federal
Home funds for the operation of the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs; and to enter into contract
with various agencies to implement
these programs.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year XXVII and
Federal HOME grant funds, from
the United States Government; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Community
Development
Block
Grant
funds
from Fund No. 14 SF 027, and Federal Home Program funds from
Fund 13 SC 929, Request 36390, in
the amount of $8,442,000 for other
expenses are hereby appropriated
for the operation of the Low Interest
Loan
and
Grant
Programs,
including all related services. The
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs
include
Repair-A-Home
(RAH), Corrective Action Grant,
Afford-A-Home (AAH), Senior Home
Owners
Assistance
Program
(SHAP), Paint Refund Program,
Housewarming, Furnace Repair, and
Home Maintenance Assistance Program (HMAP).
Section 2. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into one or more contracts with various non-profit agencies,
rehabilitation
service
providers, tenants, homeowners, and
entities providing services necessary to process loans and grants to
implement the Low Interest Loan
and Grant Programs in the City of
Cleveland.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to accept monies in repayment

June 20, 2001
under said programs and to utilize
said repayments, and other program
income in a revolving fund for additional expenditures under these programs and administrative expenses,
which
repayments
and
program
income are hereby appropriated for
those purposes.
Section 4. That the City is authorized to accept promissory notes,
naming the City of Cleveland as
payee, and mortgages, naming the
City of Cleveland as mortgagee, and
any other security instrument executed to evidence and secure repayment of loans made under this program.
Section 5. That the Director of
Community Development is hereby
authorized to enter into forbearance
agreements with any recipient of a
validly existing loan administered
by the City, and to charge and
accept fees to cover costs incurred
in the preparation of loan documents, closing, and servicing costs.
Such fees shall be deposited into
Fund No. 14 and are hereby appropriated for the purposes of the Low
Interest Loan and Grant Program.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 840-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into or amend
contracts with various social service
agencies, community development or
local development corporations and
private for profit entities and to
enter into or amend memorandums
of understanding with various City
of Cleveland departments to implement the City’s community development programs and to expend funds
for
the
operation
of
programs
administered by the Department of
Community Development.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received a Community Development Block Grant, Year 27 from the
United States Government; and
Whereas, the Council of the City
of Cleveland has approved the Year
27 Community Development Block
Grant Plan as set forth in File No.
124-01-A, pursuant to Ordinance No.
124-01, passed March 26, 2001; and
Whereas, in prior Block Grant
years, the Council has approved
Block Grant Plans; and
Whereas, the Block Grant Plans
as approved commit funds to Neighborhood
Development
Activities
(“NDA”), which are CDBG eligible
activities proposed by the various
Council members; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:

The City Record
Section 1. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend contracts with various
social service agencies, community
development or local development
corporations and private for profit
entities for activities and programs
that are eligible under the Community
Development
Block
Grant
(“CDBG”) Program and are consistent with the City’s Community
Development objectives and policies.
Section 2. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into or amend memorandums of
understanding with
various City
departments to implement activities
and programs that are eligible under
the CDBG Program and are consistent with the City’s Community
Development objectives and policies.
Section 3. That the Director of
Community
Development,
after
receiving the approval stated in Section 4 below, is authorized to enter
into contract using NDA Funds with
rehabilitation service providers, tenants, homeowners, and entities providing services necessary to process
loans and grants to implement the
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs, Paint Refund Program and
other programs administered by the
Department of Community Development.
Section 4. That prior to entering
into or amending those contracts or
memorandums of understanding, or
expending any funds, the Director
of Community Development shall
receive written approval from the
Council member whose ward line
item is to fund the activity or program, provided that the amount for
such activity or program does not
exceed the amount allocated for the
Council member’s ward pursuant to
the relevant Community Development Block Grant plan.
Section 5. That the cost of the contracts, memorandums of understanding and expenditures for the programs administered by the Department of Community Development
shall not exceed $10,500,000.00 and
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 14 SC
027.
Section 6. That the Director of the
Department of Community Development is authorized to enter into or
amend contracts with the entities
administering the NDA program
that generated the program income
in an amount not to exceed that generated
program
income
and
to
expend funds for the programs
administered by the Department of
Community Development that generated
program
income
in
an
amount not to exceed that generated program income in an amount
not to exceed that generated program income, all to be paid from the
revolving fund in Fund 14.
Section 7. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

1405

103
Ord. No. 842-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Utilities
to enter into contract without competitive bidding with Dictaphone
Corporation for the purchase of a
maintenance agreement for Dictaphone equipment, for the Division of
Water and the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined that the within commodities
are non-competitive and cannot be
secured from any source other than
Dictaphone Corporation. Therefore,
the Director of Public Utilities is
hereby authorized to make a written contract with said Dictaphone
Corporation upon the basis of their
proposal dated January 16, 2001, for
the purchase of a maintenance
agreement for Dictaphone equipment
located
at
1201
Lakeside
Avenue and 4600 Harvard Avenue,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies for a
gross price for the Division of
Water and the Division of Cleveland
Public Power, Department of Public
Utilities.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall not
exceed $35,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 52 SF 001, Request
No. 33782.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 843-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of
labor and materials necessary to
install various types of equipment
and the purchase of machinery necessary for the operation of the Eastside Service Center, for the Division
of Cleveland Public Power, Department of Public Utilities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, for each or all of the following items: labor and materials necessary to install various types of
equipment and the purchase of
machinery necessary for the operation of the Eastside Service Center,
to be purchased by the Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies upon
a unit basis for the Division of

104
Cleveland Public Power, Department
of Public Utilities.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall not
exceed $300,000.00 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 57 SF 001, Request
No. 21481.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 844-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the purchase by contract of
labor and materials necessary for
the layout, binding and printing of
the 1999 and 2000 Comprehensive
Annual Financial Report, for the
Division of Financial Reporting and
Control, Department of Finance.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance is hereby authorized to
make a written contract in accordance with the Charter and the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, for each or all of the following items: labor and materials
necessary for the layout, binding
and printing of the 1999 and 2000
Comprehensive
Annual Financial
Report (“CAFR”), to be purchased
by the Commissioner of Purchases
and Supplies for a gross price for
the Division of Financial Reporting
and
Control,
Department
of
Finance.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract hereby authorized shall be
paid from Fund No. 01-998800-632000,
Request No. 4590.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provide it receives, the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 845-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating
and
replacing
the
Ostend
Avenue sewer, and authorizing the
Director of Public Utilities to enter
into contract for the making of such
improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,

The City Record
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating and replacing
the Ostend Avenue sewer, for the
Division of Water Pollution Control,
Department of Public Utilities, by
contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38120.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 847-01.
By Councilmen Reed, Rybka and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into an
agreement with ParkWorks to allow
and accept the renovations at Luke
Easter Park, as a gift to the City.
Whereas, Parkworks received a
$100,000 grant from Local Initiatives
Support Corporation for this purpose; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into an
agreement with ParkWorks to allow
it to construct a football changing
facility and to renovate the football
field at Luke Easter Park, and to
accept the improvements. The agreement shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall contain such
additional terms and conditions as
are necessary to protect the public
interest.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

1406

June 20, 2001
Ord. No. 852-01.
By Councilmen Sweeney, O’Malley
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of improving
the Erwin Avenue sewer, and authorizing the Director of Public Utilities to enter into contract for the
making of such improvement.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby determined to make the public improvement
of
improving
the
Erwin
Avenue sewer, for the Division of
Water Pollution Control, Department of Public Utilities, by contract
duly let to the lowest responsible
bidder after competitive bidding
upon a unit basis for the improvement.
Section 2. That the Director of
Public Utilities is hereby authorized
to enter into contract for the making of the above public improvement
with the lowest responsible bidder
after competitive bidding upon a
unit basis for the improvement provided however, that each separate
trade and each distinct component
part of said improvement may be
treated as a separate improvement,
and each, or any combination, of
such trades or components may be
the subject of a separate contract
upon a unit basis.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund No. 53 SF
001, Request No. 38121.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 887-01.
By Councilmen Britt, Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone
Agreement
with
Quark
Biotech, Incorporated to provide for
a ten year abatement for certain
tangible personal property and real
estate taxes as an incentive to purchase machinery, equipment, furniture and fixtures for the property
located at 10265 Carnegie Avenue.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an

June 20, 2001
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, Quark Biotech, Incorporated (the “Enterprise”) has proposed to make building improvements and to purchase machinery,
equipment, furniture and fixtures
for the property located at 10265
Carnegie Avenue; and
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement of personal property and real
estate taxes the Enterprise would be
at a competitive disadvantage by
operating at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and
for the further reason that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, such assistance being immediately necessary
or such jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise to provide for a ten year
abatement for certain tangible personal property and real estate taxes
as an incentive to purchase machinery, equipment, furniture and fixtures for the property located at
10265 Carnegie Avenue; said abatement shall be subject to annual
review of the Tax Incentive Review
Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 887-01-A. The terms of
said file notwithstanding, the terms
of the tax abatement shall not be
amended, nor shall the tax abatement be assignable or transferrable
to any entity, without the prior legislative authorization by Cleveland
City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,

The City Record
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 888-01.
By Councilmen Britt, Melena and
Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into Empowerment
Zone Section 108 loans and an Economic Development Initiative Grant
Agreements with Quark Biotech,
Incorporated to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance the purchase of machinery,
equipment, furniture and fixtures
and for the renovation of property
located at 10265 Carnegie Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into Empowerment Zone Section 108 loans with
Quark Biotech, Incorporated to provide economic development assistance to partially finance the purchase of machinery, equipment, furniture and fixtures and for the renovation of property located at 10265
Carnegie Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
(the “Improvement”).
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into an Economic Development Initiative Grant
Agreements with Quark Biotech,
Incorporated to provide Economic
Development Initiative Grant funds
to
partially
finance
the
abovedescribed Improvement.
Section 3. That the terms of said
loans and grants shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 888-01-A.
Section 4. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed a real
estate
loan
in
the
amount
of
$1,320,000 and a machinery and
equipment loan in the amount of
$780,000 for a total loan amount of
$2,100,000; and a real estate grant
amount of $330,000 and a machinery
and equipment grant in the amount
of $195,000, for a total grant amount
of $525,000. The loans shall be paid
from Fund Nos. 18 SF 001 and 18 SF
003 and the grants shall be paid
from Fund No. 18 SF 003, Request
No. 13189.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized and directed to accept
collateral as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in the file
referenced in this ordinance in order
to secure repayment of said loan.
Any security instrument shall be
prepared and approved by the Director of Law.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 18 SF 002.
Section 7. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees

1407

105
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and such fees are hereby
appropriated
to
cover
costs
incurred in the preparation of the
loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. Such fees shall be
deposited and expended from Fund
No. 18 SF 004.
Section 8. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 9. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 889-01.
By
Councilmen
Britt,
Patmon,
Lewis and Melena (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 865-2000, passed June 19, 2000,
relating to the expenditure of Economic Development Initiative Grant
and Title XX Grant funds for administration of the Empowerment Zone
Program, as amended, and to enter
into contracts and related documents with various entities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 865-2000,
passed June 19, 2000, are hereby
amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to expend Economic Development Initiative Grant and Title
XX Grant funds for administration
of the Empowerment Zone Program,
as amended; and to enter into all
contracts and related documents
with Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation, Glenville Development Corporation, Famicos Foundation and MidTown Cleveland, for
implementation of the Empowerment Zone Program, as amended.
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into and execute
all contracts and all necessary documents with Fairfax Renaissance
Development Corporation, Glenville
Development Corporation, Famicos
Foundation, and MidTown Cleveland, in the aggregate sum of
$2,240,000, for the purpose of implementing the Empowerment Zone
Program, as amended.
Section 2. That the existing title
and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 8652000, passed June 19, 2000, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and

106
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 895-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency ordinance to amend
the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance
No. 2163-2000, passed November 27,
2000, relating to a grant agreement
with the Northeast Ohio Areawide
Coordinating Agency for partial support of the Big Creek Environmental Study to carry out the public purpose of conducting an environmental planning study, through the use
of Ward 15 Neighborhood Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2163-2000,
passed November 27, 2000, are hereby amended to read as follows:
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with the Northeast Ohio
Areawide Coordinating Agency for
partial support of the Big Creek
Environmental Study to carry out
the public purpose of conducting an
environmental
planning
study,
through the use of Ward 15 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement
with
the
Northeast
Ohio
Areawide Coordinating Agency for
partial support of the Big Creek
Environmental Study to carry out
the public purpose of conducting an
environmental
planning
study,
through the use of Ward 15 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the Title and Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2163-2000,
passed November 27, 2000 are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 900-01.
By Councilmen Jackson, Melena,
Cimperman and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan and an
Economic
Development
Initiative
Grant Agreement with Cleveland
Restoration Society, Inc. to provide
economic development assistance to
partially finance building improvements,
landscaping
and
garden
improvement for property located at
3751 Prospect Avenue; and to enter
into
contract
with
Cleveland

The City Record
Restoration Society, Inc. to provide
an additional grant to partially
finance those improvements.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan with
Cleveland Restoration Society, Inc.
to provide economic development
assistance to partially finance building improvements, landscaping and
garden improvement for property
located at 3751 Prospect Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
(the
“Improvement”).
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a grant
agreement with Cleveland Restoration Society, Inc. to provide Economic Development Initiative Grant
funds to partially finance the abovedescribed Improvement.
Section 3. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into contract
with the Cleveland Restoration Society, Inc. to provide a grant to partially finance the above-described
Improvement using UDAG repayments.
Section 4. That the terms of said
loan and grants shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 900-01-A.
Section 5. That the costs of said
contracts shall not exceed an Empowerment Zone Section 108 loan of
$60,000.00 and a Economic Development Initiative Grant amount of
$15,000.00. The loan shall be paid
from Fund No. 18 SF 001 and 18 SF
003 and the grant shall be paid from
Fund No. 18 SF 003, Request No.
26664. In addition, the costs of the
UDAG repayment grant shall not
exceed $55,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 17 SF 008, Request
No. 26663, which funds are appropriated for this purpose. In addition
to any other sources of funding for
these contracts, $25,000 from the
Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity Fund,
10 SF166, shall also fund the making of the Improvement, which
includes as its benefits job retention
and creation and are hereby appropriated for this purpose.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized and directed to accept
collateral as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in the file
referenced in this ordinance in order
to secure repayment of said loan.
Any security instrument shall be
prepared and approved by the Director of Law.
Section 7. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 18 SF 002.
Section 8. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and such fees are hereby
appropriated
to
cover
costs
incurred in the preparation of the
loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. Such fees shall be
deposited and expended from Fund
Nos. 17 SF 006 and 18 SF 004.

1408

June 20, 2001
Section 9. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 10. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 901-01.
By Councilmen Johnson, Melena
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2118-2000,
passed December 18, 2000, relating to
a First Amendment to Contract No.
56087 with Shaker Square of Ohio
LLC to provide a grant to finance
construction costs relating to the
Shaker Square planned retail center.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 1 of Ordinance No. 2118-2000, passed December 18, 2000, be and the same is hereby amended to read as follows:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a First
Amendment to Contract No. 56087
with Shaker Square of Ohio LLC to
provide a grant in the amount of
$500,000
to
finance
construction
costs relating to the Shaker Square
planned retail center. Said grant
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 10 SF
166 and 17 SF 008, Request No. 26640.
That
the
Director
of
Economic
Development is hereby authorized to
further amend Contract No. 56087 to
change the terms of the loan provided pursuant to that contract. The
new terms shall be in accordance
with the summary contained in File
No. 901-01-A.
Section 2. That existing Section 1
of Ordinance No. 2118-2000, passed
December 18, 2000 is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.
Ord. No. 905-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 2 and 5 of Ordinance No.
257-97, passed April 14, 1997, as
amended by Ordinance No. 587-99,
passed June 7, 1999, relating to
expending Economic Development
Initiative Grant Funds for the operation of the Empowerment Zone
Business Opportunity Program and
to enter into contracts under this
program.

June 20, 2001
Whereas,
the
Empowerment
Zone’s economic development program is predicated on assistant businesses who typically have been
excluded from conventional lending
programs, both private and public;
and
Whereas, for reasons that include
lack of effective financial and management systems, past credit problems, lack of access to broad consumer networks, and the inability to
meet security and collateral underwriting requirements; and
Whereas, the EZ BOP Program
was created to meet such unmet
needs of Empowerment Zone businesses; and
Whereas, the provision of one-onone technical assistance for such
businesses is as important as the
provision of loans and rebates; and
Whereas, the EZ BOP Program
represents on of several approaches
to address the needs of small businesses; and
Whereas, the Empowerment Zone
provides four to six months of assistance to determine suitability of EZ
BOP assistance for such businesses;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 2 and 5 of
Ordinance No. 257-97, passed April
14, 1997, as amended by Ordinance
No. 587-99, passed June 7, 1999, are
hereby amended to read, respectively, as follows:
Section 2. That, any contract
authorized hereby shall not exceed
$155,000 to any single small business
and
shall
receive
the
written
approval of the Council person in
whose ward said small business is
located; the costs of said contract
shall be paid from Fund No. 18 SF
003 and 18 SF 001, Request No. 22285.
Contracts for purposes of the Program in excess of $155,000 may be
approved by Council by appropriate
legislation.
Section 5. That the contracting
authority
granted
herein
shall
expire on December 31, 2004, the
Director of Economic Development
shall, within six months of the effective date of this ordinance, report to
Council on activity of the Program,
including, but not limited to, the
number
and
value
of
contracts
entered into and projects completed
under the Program.
Section 2. That existing Sections 2
and 5 of Ordinance No. 257-97, passed
April 14, 1997, as amended by Ordinance No. 587-99, passed June 7, 1999,
are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 910-01.
By Councilmen Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Directors of Economic Development and Personnel and Human
Resources to establish individual
training accounts and to enter into

The City Record
contracts with various agencies for
the implementation and administration of the Empowerment Zone
Labor Force Development Program.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has received an Economic Development Initiative Grant from the United States Department of HUD to
fund Labor Force Development programs for Empowerment Zone residents; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Directors of
Economic Development and Personnel and Human Resources are authorized to establish individual training accounts and to enter into one
or more contracts with various nonprofit, for-profit and public agencies
selected by said Directors in accordance with the HUD approved Citizen-Participation Process for the
Empowerment Zone for the implementation and administration of a
comprehensive Labor Force Development Program to provide job
training, job placement, child care
support,
legal
services
support,
transportation
support,
career
assessments, testing, education, and
other related services.
Section 2. That the total cost of
all
contracts
shall
not
exceed
$5,352,000.00 and shall be paid from
Fund No. 18 SF 007, Request No.
13194.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 916-01.
By Councilmen O’Malley, Gordon,
Cintron and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
the title, Section 1 and Section 3 of
Ordinance No. 730-2000, passed June
12, 2000, relating to the rehabilitation of State Road from Brookpark
Road to Pearl Road.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the title, Section 1
and Section 3 of Ordinance No. 7302000, passed June 12, 2000, are hereby amended to read, respectively, as
follows:
An emergency ordinance determining the method of making the
public improvement of rehabilitating State Road from Brookpark
Road to Pearl Road and constructing a brick paver amenity strip,
including tree pits and trees where
appropriate along a portion of State
Road and authorizing the Director
of Public Service to enter into contract
for
the
making
of
such
improvement.
Section 1. That, pursuant to Section 167 of the Charter of the City
of Cleveland, it is hereby deter-

1409

107
mined to make the public improvement of rehabilitating State Road
from Brookpark Road to Pearl Road
and constructing a brick paver
amenity strip, including tree pits
and trees where appropriate along
a portion of State Road for the Division of Engineering and Construction, Department of Public Service,
by contract duly let to the lowest
responsible bidder after competitive
bidding upon a unit basis for the
improvement.
Section 3. That the cost of said
improvement
hereby
authorized
shall be paid from Fund Nos. 52 SF
001, 53 SF 003, 58 SF 001, 10 SF 166
and 20 SF 364 and from the fund or
funds to which are credited the proceeds of any grant funds from the
Ohio Works Commission and from
the Ohio Department of Transportation, Request No. 22513.
Section 2. That the existing title,
Section 1 and Section 3 of Ordinance
No. 730-2000, passed June 12, 2000,
are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 917-01.
By
Councilman
Patmon
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Finance, on
behalf of the Cleveland Municipal
Court, to enter into contract for professional services necessary to place
criminal defendants in community
service, for the Cleveland Municipal
Court, for a period of one year, with
a one year option to renew.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Finance, on behalf of the Cleveland
Municipal Court, is hereby authorized to enter into contract with
Court Community Service for professional
services
necessary
to
arrange community service for persons the Court refers to Court Community Service, for a period of one
year, commencing January 1, 2001,
with one (1) option exercisable by
the Director of Finance, to renew
for an additional one-year term, and
cancelable upon thirty days written
notice by said Director, on the basis
of its proposal dated January 1,
2001, in the sum of $137,500, payable
from
Fund
No.
01-011501-632000,
Request No. 19382, for the Cleveland
Municipal Court.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

108
Ord. No. 919-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to amend
Section 178.01 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as
enacted by Ordinance No. 2353-93,
passed February 14, 1994, relating to
definitions regarding deposit and
investment of City funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Section 178.01 of
the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by Ordinance No. 2353-93, passed February
14, 1994, is hereby amended to read
as follows:
Section 178.01 Definitions
As used in this chapter, unless
another definition is provided or the
content otherwise requires, the following definitions shall apply:
(a) “Active deposit” means a public deposit necessary to meet current
demands on the City Treasury, and
that is deposited in any of the following:
(1) A commercial account that is
payable or withdrawable in whole
or part on demand;
(2) A negotiable order of withdrawal account as authorized in the
“Consumer Checking Account Equity Act of 1980,” 94 Stat. 146, 12 U.S.C.
1832(a);
(3) A money market deposit account as authorized in the “Garn-St.
Germain Depository Institutions Act
of 1982,” 96 Stat. 1501, 12 U.S.C. 3503.
(b) “Business day” means any day
other than Saturday, Sunday, or any
day on which Cleveland City Hall is
closed.
(c) “City Treasurer” means the
custodian of all public money of the
City appointed pursuant to Section
99 of the Charter.
(d) “Depository” or “depositories”
means any national bank, subject to
inspection by either the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency or the Superintendent of Banks for the State of
Ohio, any bank as defined by RC
1101.01, subject to inspection by the
Superintendent of Banks for the
State of Ohio, any federal savings
and loan association, and any savings bank chartered pursuant to RC
Chapter 1161.
(e) “Eligible depository” or “eligible depositories” means any depository designated by the Director of
Finance pursuant to this chapter to
receive or hold the active deposits
of the City.
(f) “Public deposit” means public
monies deposited in a depository.
(g) “Public monies” means all
monies in the treasury of the City
or monies coming lawfully into the
possession or custody of the City
Treasurer.
(h) “Trustee” means any national
bank, subject to inspection by either
the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency or the Superintendent of Banks
for the State of Ohio, and any bank
as defined by RC 1101.01, subject to
inspection by the Superintendent of
Banks for the State of Ohio, which
is designated as a trustee for purposes of this chapter.
(i) “Uniform
Depository
Act”
means RC Chapter 135 and any

The City Record
amendment or supplement thereto.
Wherever any provision of the Uniform Depository Act is made applicable under this chapter, such provision is applicable only to the extent
that it is not in conflict with or
inconsistent with the Charter, any
other provision in this chapter or
any other ordinance or resolution
passed by the City Council.
Section 2. That existing Section
178.01 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted by
Ordinance No. 2353-93, passed February 14, 1994, is hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 920-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to levy
special assessments for the control
of blight and disease of shade trees
by planting, removing, replacing,
trimming, creating or excavating
cutouts for shade trees, and other
related activities, in and along the
streets of portions of the City of
Cleveland.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the assessment of
the cost and expense of providing
for the control of blight and disease
of shade trees by planting, removing, replacing, trimming, creating
and excavating cutouts for shade
trees, and other related activities in
and along the streets of portions of
the City of Cleveland (“Tree Maintenance”) in the 2001-2002 Tree
Maintenance District in the City of
Cleveland, as set forth in Resolution
No. 929-98, adopted on October 12,
1998, and amounting in the aggregate to $159,347.00, as reported to
this Council by the Commissioner of
Assessments and Licenses, be and
the same is hereby adopted and conformed, and that there be and are
hereby levied and assessed upon the
lots and lands within the 2001-2002
Tree Maintenance District the several amounts reported as aforesaid,
which assessments and the description of said lots and lands are now
on file in the office of the Clerk of
Council and which assessments are
in proportion to the special benefits
and are not in excess of any statutory limitation.
Section 2. That this Council hereby finds and determines that the
assessments as now on file in the
office of said Clerk are in the same
proportion to the estimated assessments as originally filed as the
actual cost of the above-described
improvement is to the estimated cost
of the improvement as originally
filed.

1410

June 20, 2001
Section 3. That the assessment
against each lot or parcel of land
shall be payable in cash within thirty (30) days after the passage of
this ordinance or at the option of
the owner in one (1) annual installment. All cash payments shall be
made to the Commissioner of Licenses and Assessments of this City. All
assessments and installments thereof remaining unpaid at the expiration of said thirty (30) days shall be
certified by the Clerk of this Council to the County Auditor as provided by law to be placed by him on
the tax duplicate and collected as
other taxes are collected.
Section 4. That the Clerk of Council is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this ordinance with
the Auditor of Cuyahoga County
within twenty (20) days of the date
of its passage as required by Section 319.61, Ohio Revised Code.
Section 5. It is found and determined that all formal action of this
Council concerning and relating to
the adoption of this ordinance were
adopted in an open meeting of this
Council, and that all deliberations of
this Council and any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action were in meetings open to the
public, in compliance with all legal
requirements.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 930-01.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Cimperman, Melena and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with Happy Times
Day Care and Nursery School, Inc.
to provide for a ten year abatement
for real property improvements to
assist with the construction of real
property and acquisition of personal
property
located
at
12625
Lena
Avenue in the Cleveland Area Enterprise Zone.
Whereas, pursuant to Ordinance
No. 948-95, passed June 19, 1995, this
Council designated an area which is
in
the
City
of
Cleveland
and
described in File No. 948-95-A, as the
Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
(the “Zone”) pursuant to Chapter
5709 of the Ohio Revised Code; and
Whereas, in August, 1995, the
Director of Development of the State
of Ohio determined that the Zone
contains the characteristics set forth
in Section 5709.61(A) of the Revised
Code and certified said area as an
“Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone”
pursuant to Chapter 5709 of the
Revised Code; and
Whereas, Happy Times Day Care
and Nursery School, Inc. (the “Enterprise”) has proposed to construct
real property and to acquire personal property located at 12625 Lena
Avenue; and

June 20, 2001
Whereas, the Enterprise has certified to the City that, but for abatement of real property improvements
the Enterprise would be at a competitive disadvantage by operating
at this location; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure in that
the same provides for the immediate
preservation of the public peace,
safety, property, and welfare and
for the further reason that its enactment is a necessary prerequisite to
providing immediate assistance to
create and preserve job opportunities and advance and promote commercial and economic development
in the City of Cleveland, such assistance being immediately necessary
or such jobs will be lost; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council hereby approves the application of the
Enterprise for enterprise zone incentives on the basis that the Enterprise
is
qualified
by
financial
responsibility and business experience to create and preserve employment opportunities in the Cleveland
Area
Enterprise
Zone
and
to
improve the economic climate of the
City of Cleveland.
Section 2. That the Director of
Economic Development is authorized to enter into an Enterprise
Zone Agreement with the Enterprise
to provide for a ten year abatement
for real property improvements to
assist with the construction of real
property and acquisition of personal
property
located
at
12625
Lena
Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio; said abatement shall be subject to annual
review of the Tax Incentive Review
Council.
Section 3. That the terms of said
tax abatement shall be in accordance with the terms as set forth in
the Executive Summary contained
in File No. 930-01-A. The terms of
said file notwithstanding, the terms
of the tax abatement shall not be
amended, nor shall the tax abatement be assignable or transferrable
to any entity, without the prior legislative authorization by Cleveland
City Council.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable under Chapter 5709
of the Revised Code and such funds
are hereby appropriated for the purposes set forth in Chapter 5709 of
the Revised Code.
Such fees shall
be deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 5. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
agreement and that said agreement
shall contain such terms and provisions as he deems necessary to protect the City’s interest.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

The City Record
Ord. No. 931-01.
By Councilmen Sweeney, Melena
and Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Economic Development to enter into a contract with
Happy Times Day Care and Nursery
School, Inc. to provide economic
development assistance to partially
finance the construction of real
property improvements and acquisition of personal property located at
12625 Lena Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to enter into a contract
with Happy Times Day Care and
Nursery School, Inc. to provide economic development assistance to
partially finance the construction of
real
property
improvements
and
acquisition
of
personal
property
located at 12625 Lena Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Section 2. That the term of said
loan shall be in accordance with the
terms as set forth in the Executive
Summary contained in File No. 93101-A.
Section 3. That the costs of said
contract shall not exceed Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Nine Hundred
Seventy-Five Dollars ($250,975.00),
and shall be paid from Fund No. 17
SF 008, Request No. 26655, which
funds are appropriated for this purpose.
Section 4. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept the collateral
as set forth in the Executive Summary contained in the file referenced above in order to secure
repayment of said loan. Any security instrument shall be prepared and
approved by the Director of Law.
Section 5. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to accept monies in
repayment of the loan and to deposit
said monies in Fund No. 17 SF 006.
Section 6. That the Director of
Economic Development is hereby
authorized to charge and accept fees
in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowable fees under federal
regulations and such fees are hereby
appropriated
to
cover
costs
incurred in the preparation of the
loan application, closing and servicing of the loan. Such fees shall be
deposited to and expended from
Fund No. 17 SF 305, Loan Fees Fund.
Section 7. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said contract and such other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

1411

109
Ord. No. 933-01.
By Councilmen Westbrook, Cintron and Patmon (by departmental
request).
An emergency ordinance determining to proceed to improve West 117th
Street from
Madison
Avenue to
approximately 100 feet north of
Clifton Boulevard by constructing an
amenity strip in the sidewalk and
emplacing tree pockets along the
public right-of-way; and adopting the
assessments.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That it is hereby determined to proceed to improve West
117th Street from Madison Avenue to
approximately 100 feet north of
Clifton Boulevard by constructing an
amenity strip in the sidewalk and
emplacing tree pockets along the
public
right-of-way
(the
“Improvements”) in accordance with
Resolution No. 2124-2000, adopted
February 12, 2001 (the “Resolution of
Necessity”).
Section 2. That said Improvements
shall be performed in accordance
with the provisions of the Resolution
of Necessity, and with the plans,
specifications, profiles and estimates
heretofore approved and filed in the
office of the Clerk of Council.
Section 3. That the estimated
assessments for said Improvements,
as equalized by the Assessment
Equalization Board, heretofore filed
in the office of the Clerk of City
Council be and the same are hereby
adopted.
Section 4. That it is further determined that the portion of the cost of
said Improvements to be assessed
against benefited property shall be
assessed in the amount, manner and
number of installments as provided
for in the Resolution of Necessity.
Section 5. That no claims for damages resulting from said Improvements have been filed.
Section 6. That the cost of said
Improvements shall be paid, prior to
the collection of assessments, from
Fund Nos. 20 SF 334, 20 SF 353, and
20 SF 364. This Council hereby determines that the City expects to levy
assessments
in
2002
for
such
Improvements, and that the City further expects and intends to use proceeds of such assessments to reimburse Fund Nos. 20 SF 334, 20 SF 353
and 20 SF 364 the moneys expended
therefrom pursuant to this Ordinance.
Section 7. That the Clerk of this
Council is hereby directed to deliver
a certified copy of this ordinance to
the County Auditor within fifteen
(15) days after the passage of this
ordinance as required by Section
319.61 of the Revised Code.
Section 8. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

110

The City Record

June 20, 2001

Ord. No. 1086-01.
By Councilman Brady (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to issue a permit to Westown Community
Development Corporation to hang twelve (12) Location Identification Banners on portions of Lorain Ave. using
C.P.P. utility poles (by separate permission).
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of Public Service hereby is authorized to issue a permit revocable at the will of
Council, and assignable by the Permittee with the written consent of the Director of Public Service to Westown
Community Development Corporation, 10313 Lorain Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44111, its successors and assigns, to
hang twelve (12) location identification banners on Cleveland Public Power utility poles (by separate permission)
which will encroach into the public right-of-way of Lorain Avenue between West 103rd Street and West 140th
Street at the location described as follows:
POLE LOCATION:

POLE NUMBER:

POLE OWNER:

Lorain Avenue:
10311 Lorain Ave. (S)
3rd pole E.of Joan (S)
2nd pole W. of W. 110th (S)
1st pole E. of Bosworth (S)
SE Corner of Bosworth (S)
NW Corner of W. 122nd (N)
S.E. Corner W. 123nd (S)
N.W. Corner W. 125th (N)
S.E. Corner W. 127th (S)
S.W. Corner W. 128th (S)
1st pole E. of W. 135th (N)
1st pole E. of W. 140th (N)

#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#

C.
C.
C.
C.
C.
C.
C.
C.
C.
C.
C.
C.

AOM 22-48
20583
20560
EOM-15-145
20528
ETM-11-44
18610
ETM 11-47
18617
18621
EOM-12-26
ETM-13-25

P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.

P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.
P.

Section 2. That said banners will be hung within the public right-of-way of portions of the streets as aforesaid,
and said banners will be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner
of Engineering and Construction.
Section 3. That nothing in this ordinance grants or shall be considered a grant to Permittee any right, privilege
or permission to use or to attach or affix any objects to poles described in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section 4. That the permit herein authorized shall be prepared by the Director of Law and shall be issued only
when, in the opinion of the Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified against any
and all loss which may result from said permit.
Section 5. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

Ord. No. 1087-01.
By Councilmen Britt, White, Reed,
Johnson, Jackson, Lewis, Patmon,
Willis, Coats, Polensek, Rybka, Cimperman, Brady, Sweeney and Gordon
(by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with The Greater Cleveland Beepball League for the World
Series of Beep Baseball in order to
carry out the public purpose of providing recreational programming for
residents through the use of Ward
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 19
& 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is authorized to enter into a grant agreement with The Greater Cleveland
Beepball League for the World
Series of Beep Baseball in order to
carry out the public purpose of providing recreational programming for
residents through the use of Ward
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 19
& 20 Neighborhood Equity Funds.

Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $14,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.
Ord. No. 1088-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Parents and Children for Equality
(PACE) to stretch banners across
the East 55th Street bridge fence at
I-90, facing east for the period of
June 5, 2001, publicizing their banner for Both Parents are Important.

1412

Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Parents and Children for Equality (PACE) to install,
maintain and remove banners at
across the East 55th Street bridge
fence at I-90, facing east for the
period of June 5, 2001. Said banner
shall be approved by the Director of
Public Service, in consultation with
the Director of Public Safety, as to
type, method of affixing and location so as not to interfere with any
sign erected and maintained under
the requirements of law or ordinance. The permission of the owner
of any pole from which a banner
will be hung must be obtained prior
to issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed
or permitted on said banner and
said
banner
shall
be
removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.

June 20, 2001
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.
Ord. No. 1089-01.
By Councilman Cintron.
An emergency ordinance to amend
Sections 1 and 2 of Ordinance No.
1776-A-90, passed April 22, 1991, as
amended by Ordinance No. 960-99,
passed June 7, 1999, and Ordinance
No. 2093-99, passed December 13,
1999, relating to establishing the
City of Cleveland as a Community
Reinvestment Area, except the area
defined as the “Downtown Plan
Area” by the Civic Vision 2000 Plan.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That Sections 1 and 2 of
Ordinance
No.
1776-A-90,
passed
April 22, 1991, as amended by Ordinance No. 960-99, passed June 7, 1999,
and Ordinance No. 2093-99, passed
December
13,
1999,
are
hereby
amended to read as follows:
Section 1. Based upon information
and data presented to the Council
and contained in File No. 1776-A-90A, it is hereby found and determined
that the City of Cleveland, except
the area defined as the “Downtown
Plan Area” by the Civic Vision 2000
Plan, and excepting from the Downtown Plan Area, the area described
and contained in File No. 1089-01-A,
is a blighted and deteriorated area,
and is an area in which housing
facilities or structures of historical
significance are located and new
construction and repair or existing
facilities or structures are discouraged.
This finding of blight and
deterioration shall in no way be construed as a finding of slum and
blight for purposes of an eminent
domain action against any property
located in the area described herein.
Section 2. That, all of the area
within the municipal boundaries of
the City of Cleveland, except the
area defined as the “Downtown Plan
Area” by the Civic Vision 2000 Plan,
and excepting from the Downtown
Plan Area, the area described and
contained in File No. 1089-01-A, is
hereby designated a Community
Reinvestment Area pursuant to Section 3735.65 et seq., of the Ohio
Revised Code.
Section 2. That existing Sections 1
and 2 of Ordinance No. 1776-A-90,
passed April 22, 1991, as amended by
Ordinance No. 960-99, passed June 7,
1999, and Ordinance No. 2093-99,
passed December 13, 1999, are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it

The City Record
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001, without
the signature of the Mayor.
Ord. No. 1090-01.
By Councilman Dolan.
An emergency ordinance consenting and approving the issuance of a
permit for the St. Mark’s Foot Race
on June 9, 2001, sponsored by St.
Mark’s Church.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 411.06 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, this
Council consents to and approves
the holding of the St. Mark’s Foot
Race,
sponsored
by
St.
Mark’s
Church, on June 9, 2001, beginning
at Montrose and West 159th Street
to Fisher, Fisher to West 165th
Street, West 165th Street to Edgecliff, Edgecliff to West 157th Street,
West 157th Street to Fernway, Fernway to deadend turn around to
West 155th Street to Montrose, Montrose to West 157th Street, West
157th Street to Edgecliff, Edgecliff
to West 165th Street, West 165th
Street to Fisher, Fisher to the finish
line, provided that the applicant
sponsor shall meet all the requirements of Section 411.05 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976. Streets may be closed as determined by the Chief of Police and
safety forces as may be necessary
in order to protect the participants
in the event. Said permit shall further provide that the City of Cleveland shall be fully indemnified from
any and all liability resulting from
the issuance of the same, to the
extent and in form satisfactory to
the Director of Law.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.
Ord. No. 1091-01.
By Councilman Gordon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Community
Development to enter into a grant
agreement with Ohio Canal Corridor
for their Byway Blitz and History
Hike programs in order to carry out
the public purpose of promoting
planning and community volunteer
organization through the use of
Ward
15
Neighborhood
Equity
Funds.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Community Development is autho-

1413

111
rized to enter into a grant agreement with Ohio Canal Corridor for
their Byway Blitz and History Hike
programs in order to carry out the
public purpose of promoting planning and community volunteer organization through the use of Ward 15
Neighborhood Equity Funds.
Section 2. That the cost of said
contract shall be in an amount not
to exceed $15,000 and shall be paid
from Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law shall prepare and approve said
contract and that the contract shall
contain such terms and provisions
as he deems necessary to protect the
City’s interest.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

Ord. No. 1092-01.
By Councilman Jackson.
An emergency ordinance authorizing certain persons to engage in
peddling in Ward 5. (Howard Taylor)
Whereas,
pursuant
to
Section
675.08 of the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, (the “Codified
Ordinances”) the consent of Council,
expressed by ordinance, is a prerequisite to mobile peddling upon
the public rights of way outside of
the Central Business District; and
Whereas, this Council has considered the requests of certain persons
to engage in peddling outside of the
Central Business District, and has
determined that it is in the public
interest to allow each of said persons to peddle in Ward 5; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That this Council consents, as required by Section 675.08
of the Codified Ordinances, to allow
each person named below to engage
in mobile peddling in the public
rights of way of Ward 5: Howard
Taylor.
Section 2. That all of the requirements of Chapter 675 of the Codified
Ordinances shall apply to the persons named in Section 1 of this ordinance.
Section
3.
That
the
privilege
granted herein may be revoked at
any time by this Council.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

The City Record

112
Ord. No. 1093-01.
By Councilmen Johnson and Britt.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
God’s House of Prayer and Deliverance to hang three (3) banners on
Cleveland Public Power utility poles
(by separate permission) publicizing their special event for the period
of June 11, 2001 to July 3, 2001,
inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to God’s House
of Prayer and Deliverance, P.O. Box
604389, Cleveland, Ohio 44104, to
install, maintain and remove three
(3) banners to be placed on Cleveland Public Power utility poles, (by
separate permission), for the period
of June 11, 2001 to July 3, 2001,
inclusive, publicizing their special
event, and which banners are to be
placed at the following pole locations and on pole numbers: Woodland Avenue - between E. 110th and
E. 111th Sts. (South), pole # E4-30;
2nd Pole W. of Woodhill (North),
E4-18-2; - and - Woodhill Road between Kennedy & Cumberland,
pole # E4-18A-5; and which poles
location
and
banners
shall
be
approved by the Director of Public
Service in consultation with the

Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
placed must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner, and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

Ord. No. 1094-01.
By Councilman Melena.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Sagrada Familia Church to stretch
banners at 7750 Detroit Avenue and
7775 Detroit Avenue, for the period
from June 4, 2001 to June 27, 2001,
inclusive, publicizing the Church
Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore

June 20, 2001
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to Sagrada Familia
Church to install, maintain and
remove banners at at 7750 Detroit
Avenue (pole nos. E 6 43 and E 5 4
dark brown light poles) and 7775
Detroit Avenue (pole nos. E 6 42 and
E 5 5 dark brown light poles) for
the period from June 4, 2001 to June
27, 2001, inclusive. Said banner shall
be approved by the Director of Public Service, in consultation with the
Director of Public Safety, as to type,
method of affixing and location so
as not to interfere with any sign
erected and maintained under the
requirements of law or ordinance.
The permission of the owner of any
pole from which a banner will be
hung must be obtained prior to
issuance of the permit. No commercial advertising shall be printed or
permitted on said banner and said
banner shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

Ord. No. 1095-01.
By Councilman Patmon (by departmental request).
An emergency ordinance to provide the transfer of the sum of Three Hundred Ninety Two Thousand One Hundred Fifty One Dollars ($392,151) within the Division of Park Maintenance, Department of Parks, Recreation and
Properties, of the General Fund.
Whereas, in accordance with Section 41 of the Charter, the Mayor has recommended in writing the within
transfer; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of a municipal
department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the sum of Three Hundred Ninety Two Thousand One Hundred Fifty One Dollars ($392,151) be
the same and hereby transferred as follows:
GENERAL FUND
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
FROM

TO

DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION AND PROPERTIES
Division of Park Maintenance and Properties
I. Personnel and Related Expenses
II. Other Expenses
TOTAL DEPARTMENT OF PARKS, RECREATION
AND PROPERTIES
TOTAL GENERAL FUND

$
$

392,151
—

$
$

—
392,151

$

392,151

$

392,151

$

392,151

$

392,151

Section 2. That this ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure and, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon its passage and approval by the Mayor; otherwise it shall take effect and be in force from and after the
earliest period allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

1414

June 20, 2001
Ord. No. 1096-01.
By
Councilman
Polensek
(by
departmental request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Parks, Recreation and Properties to enter into a
grant agreement with the Cleveland
Soap Box Derby Association to provide economic assistance for the
purposes of programs, events, and
other related activities.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Parks, Recreation and Properties is
hereby authorized to enter into a
grant agreement with the Cleveland
Soap Box Derby Association to provide economic assistance for the
purposes of programs, events, and
other related activities.
Section 2. That the costs of said
grant agreement shall not exceed
$100,000, and shall be paid from
Fund No. 10 SF 166.
Section 3. That the Director of
Law is hereby authorized to prepare
said grant agreement and such
other documents as may be appropriate to complete the transaction.
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

Ord. No. 1097-01.
By Councilman White.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Mystic Knights to stretch one (1)
banner on Cleveland Public Power
utility poles (by separate permission) publicizing their annual event
for the period of July 1, 2001 to July
31, 2001, inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to the Mystic
Knights, 11417 Miles Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44105, to install, maintain
and remove one (1) banner to be
placed on Cleveland Public Power
utility poles, (by separate permission), for the period of July 1, 2001
to July 31, 2001, inclusive, publicizing their annual event, and which
banner is to be placed at the following pole locations and on the following pole locations and numbers:
Miles Avenue - 11404 Miles Avenue
(South side of street) and 11407
Miles Avenue (North side of street);
No Tags or numbers on either pole,
and which poles location and banner shall be approved by the Director of Public Service in consultation
with The Director of Public Safety,

The City Record
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a banner will be placed must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said banner,
and said banner shall be removed
promptly upon the expiration of said
permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

Ord. No. 1098-01.
By Councilman Willis (by request).
An emergency ordinance authorizing the Director of Public Service to
issue a permit to University Hospitals of Cleveland to encroach into
the public right-of-way of Cornell
Rd. & Circle Dr. with shoring, sheeting, & tie-backs for the Research
Institute Building to be constructed
for this Hospital.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That the Director of
Public Service hereby is authorized
to issue a permit, revocable at the
will of the Council of the City of
Cleveland, and assignable by the
Permittee with the written consent
of the Director of Public Service to
University Hospitals of Cleveland,
11100
Euclid
Avenue,
Cleveland,
Ohio
44106,
its
successors
and
assigns, for the construction, use
and maintenance of shoring, sheeting and tie-backs for the new
Research Institute Building which
will encroach into the public rightof-way of Cornell Road S.E. and Circle Drive S.E., and are more fully
described as follows:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION/ENCROACHMENT AREA/UNIVERSITY
HOSPITALS OF CLEVELAND/
UPON RIGHT-OF-WAY/CORNELL
RD. S.E. & CIRCLE DR. S.E.
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and the State
of Ohio and known as being a part
of Original 100 Acre Lots Nos. 403
and 404, and further known as being
part of Cornell Road S.E. (60.00 feet
wide) and Circle Drive S.E. (60.00
feet wide), as shown by the dedication plat recorded in Volume 185,
Page 35 of Cuyahoga County Map
Records, and further bounded and
described as follows:
Beginning at the centerline intersection of said Cornell Road S.E.,
with the centerline of said Circle
Drive S.E;
Thence North 46°-07'-53" West,
along said centerline of Cornell
Road S.E., a distance of 360.00 feet
to a point;
Thence North 43°-52'-07" East, a
distance of 30.00 feet to a point on
the northeasterly line of said Cor-

1415

113
nell Road S.E., said point being the
principle point of beginning of the
description for the encroachment
upon the public right-of-way, herein
intended to be described;
Course 1 — Thence South 46°-07'53" East, along said northeasterly
line of Cornell Road S.E., a distance
of 279.20 feet to a point of curved
turnout between said Cornell Road
and Circle Drive S.E.;
Course 2 — Thence along the arc
of said curved turnout deflecting to
the left, 40.67 feet, said curved
turnout having a radius of 20.00 feet
and a chord which bears North 75°37'-07" East, a distance of 34.01 feet
to a point of tangency on the westerly line of said Circle Drive S.E.;
Course 3 — Thence North 17°-22'07" East, along said westerly line of
Circle Drive S.E., a distance of 41.20
feet to a point of curve;
Course 4 — Thence continuing
along said westerly line of Circle
Drive S.E., along the arc of a curve
deflecting to the left, 325.00 feet,
said curve having a radius of 1510.37
feet and a chord which bears North
11°-12'-15" East, a distance of 324.37
feet to a point;
Course 5 — Thence South 84°-57'37" East, a distance of 45.00 feet to
a point, said point being 15.00 feet
easterly by rectangular measurement from said centerline of Circle
Drive S.E.;
Course 6 – Thence along the arc
of a curve, deflecting to the right,
334.68 feet, said curve having a
radius of 1555.37 feet and a chord
which bears South 11°-12'-15" West,
a distance of 334.03 feet to a point
of tangency;
Course 7 — Thence South 17°-22'07" West, a distance of 41.20 feet to
a point;
Course 8 — Thence South 65°-11'10" West, a distance of 91.25 feet to
a point, said point being 6.00 feet
southwesterly by rectangular measurement from said centerline of
Cornell Road S.E.;
Course 9 — Thence North 46°-07'53" West, continuing 6.00 feet southwesterly from said centerline of Cornell Road S.E., a distance of 304.20
feet to a point;
Course 10 – Thence North 43°-52'07" East, a distance of 36.00 feet to
the principal point of beginning and
containing 0.6665 acres of land as
calculated and described by John E.
Jansky, Registered Surveyor No.
6440 of the C. W. Courtney Company, in May 2001, from a survey performed by Garrett & Associates Inc.
in January, 2000, be the same more
or less but subject to all legal highways and easements of record.
Basis of bearings is the centerline
of Cornell Road S.E. (North 46°-07'53" West) and are for the sole purpose of determining angles.
Section
2. That
said
shoring,
sheeting and tie-backs necessary to
build the new Research Institute
Building for University Hospitals of
Cleveland will be placed within the
public right-of-way as aforesaid in
Section 1, and will be constructed in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commissioner of Engineering and Construction. That all other required
permits, including a Building Permit, shall be obtained before said
building construction is commenced.
Section 3. That the permit herein
authorized shall be prepared by the
Director of Law and shall be issued
only when, in the opinion of the
Director of Law, the City of Cleveland has been properly indemnified
against any and all loss which may
result from said permit.

114
Section 4. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 4, 2001.
Effective June 14, 2001.

Ord. No. 1171-01.
By Councilmen Brady and Sweeney.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Westown Community Development
Corporation to hang 102 Holiday
Wreaths on Lorain Ave. from West
Blvd. to W.140th St. using Cleveland
Public Power & Cleveland Electric
Illuminating utility poles (by separate permissions) for the period of
November 12, 2001 to January 7,
2002, inclusive.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to Westown
Community Development Corporation to hang approximately 102 Holiday Wreaths on Lorain Avenue
from West Boulevard to West 140th
Street using Cleveland Public Power
and Cleveland Electric Illuminating
utility poles (by separate permissions) for the period of November
12, 2001 to January 7, 2002, inclusive,
and which Holiday Wreaths are to
be hung at the following locations
and pole numbers: On the South Side
of Lorain Avenue: CPP poles at; SW
Corner West Blvd. & Lorain; #AOM2255; Lorain moving West, #AOM2254 and #AOM 2252; and CEI pole
#52358 at 10309 Lorain Ave.; and
CPP poles; 10407 Lorain Ave., #AOM
2246; SE Corner Lorain & W. 105,
#AOM 2243 and SW Corner Lorain
and W. 105th, #AOM 2242; 10505
Lorain
Ave.,
#AOM-2239(52375);
10705 Lorain Ave., #EOM 15160,
#EOM 15159, & #EOM 15158; SE Corner Joan Ave. & Lorain, #EOM
15157; 10911 Lorain Ave., #EOM
15156; SW Corner of Lorain Ave. &
W. 110th, #EOM 15155; 11023 Lorain
Ave., #EOM 15153; 1st pole on East
portion of Christian Home, #EOM
15150; In front of Christian Home,
#EOM 15148, #EOM 15146; SE Corner of Bosworth & Lorain Ave.,
#EOM 15145; SW Corner of Bosworth
& Lorain Ave., #EOM 15144; 11515
Lorain Ave., #EOM 15142; In front
of Lyric, #EOM 15140; 11629 Lorain
Ave., #EOM 15139; SE Corner of W.
117th & Lorain Ave., #EOM 15138;
SW Corner of W. 117th St. & Lorain
Ave., #ETM 113(19729); Pole between 11711 & 11717 Lorain Ave.,
#19735; SW Corner of W. 118th &
Lorain
Ave.,
#ETM
4423;
11833
Lorain Ave., #MELP 19738; Pole in
front of 11901 Lorain Ave., #19739;
Pole on SW Corner of W. 120th &
12019 Lorain Ave., #19742; 12119
Lorain Ave., #ETM 1128; and CEI
poles at 12207 Lorain Ave. West of

The City Record
RTA stop #52461, and SW Corner of
W. 123 & Lorain #52465; and CPP
poles at; 12409 Lorain Ave., #ETM
1122; 12519 Lorain Ave., #ETM 1120;
Pole on SW Corner of W. 126th &
Lorain Ave., #18628; and CEI Poles
at; SW Side in front of Salvation
Army, #52481; In front of Lion’s
Pub, #52485; 12714 Lorain Ave.,
#52489; 12831 Lorain Ave., #52493;
and CPP poles at; VME Auto Sales,
#EMT 1108; 1 of the 2 poles at 12945
Lorain Ave., 18629; SW Corner of W.
130th & Lorain, #ETM 1106; and CEI
poles at; Pole West of RTA Shelter,
#52507; and CPP poles on; On SW
Corner CVS Store, 17520; Pole on SW
Corner of W. 132nd & Lorain,
#17521; and CEI pole near RTA
Shelter in front of Jefferson Park,
#52519; and CPP pole at 13305
Lorain Ave., #EOM 1203; and CEI
pole at 13343 Lorain Ave., #52527;
and CPP pole on SW Corner of W.
134th & Lorain, #EOM 1234; and
CPP pole at 13439 Lorain Ave.,
#3786; Vinnie’s Beverage, #EOM
1238; 13681 Lorain in front of Key
Bank in Marc’s Plaza, #EOM 1240;
and CPP pole in Front of Advance
Auto Parts, #52557; 13813 Lorain
Ave., #ETM 1321; 13901 Lorain Ave.,
#18019; 13929 Lorain Ave., #ETM
1318; SE Corner of W. 140th &
Lorain, #ETM 1317; On the North
Side of Lorain Avenue: on CEI pole
at NE Corner of W. 140th & Lorain,
Pedestrian sign pole, no #; CPP pole
on at 13980 Lorain Ave., #ETM 1525;
On CEI pole at 13948 Lorain Ave.,
#308199; on CPP pole at 13900
Lorain Ave., #ETM 1324; In front of
Mr. Hero’s, #EOM 1221; In front of
Rentwise, #EOM 1222; In front of
Sheehan’s Bar, #EOM 1224; NE Corner of W. 135th & Lorain, #1226;
Near West Drive of St. Vincent de
Paul’s Church, #EOM 1228; Near
East End of St. Vincent de Paul’s
Church, #EOM 1229; 13238 Lorain
Ave,
#ETM
1161;
13130
Lorain,
#ETM
1159;
13046
Lorain
Ave.,
#ETM
1158;
13014
Lorain
Ave.,
#1157; NE Corner of W. 130th &
Lorain, #ETM 1156; on CEI pole at
12928 Lorain, no #; on CPP pole at
Parking Lot of Mt. Calvary, #ETM
1154; 12722 Lorain, #ETM 1151; 12626
Lorain Ave., #ETM 1149; NW Corner
of W.125th & Lorain, #ETM 1147;
12224 Lorain Ave., #ETM 1145; On
CEI pole at NE Corner of W. 122nd
& Lorain, #18010; On CPP pole at
12000 Lorain Ave., #ETM 1143; 11836
Lorain Ave., #ETM 1140; Pole on
NW Corner of W. 118th & Lorain, No
#; On CEI poles at 11726 Lorain
Ave., No #; 11718 Lorain Ave.,
#15798; NE Corner of 11848 Lorain,
#15541; 11624 Lorain, #15535; Pole
NW of 11550 Lorain, No #; 11422
Lorain, #13776; 11214 Lorain Ave., #
15534; 11022 Lorain Ave., #552522; In
Front of Burger King Sign, #13797;
In Front of National City Bank,
#13741; On the North Side of Lorain
Avenue: In front of Taco Bell,
#31464; In Front of McDonald’s,
#313255; NW Corner of W. 106th &
Lorain, #523851; NW Corner of W.
105th & Lorain, No #; 10330 Lorain
Ave., #63423; NW Corner of W. 103rd
&
Lorain
Ave.
(10300
Lorain),
#63421; 10234 Lorain Ave., #51194;
Just East of BP, 1st Drive, #63419;
Just West of BP, 2nd Drive, #15520.
Said
Holiday
Wreaths
shall
be
approved by the Director of Public
Safety, as to type, method of affixing and location so as not interfere
with any sign erected and maintained under the requirements of
law or ordinance. The permission of
the owner of any pole from which a
Holiday Wreath will be hung must

1416

June 20, 2001
be obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
Holiday Wreaths and said Holiday
Wreaths shall be removed promptly
upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 1172-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Commissioner
of Licenses & Assessments to issue
a permit to Diamond Carriage Service for purposes of operating a carriage business throughout various
locations in Ward 13.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
any provisions of the Codified Ordinances to the contrary, the Commissioner of Licenses and Assessments
is authorized and directed to issue
a permit to Diamond Carriage Service for purposes of operating a carriage business throughout various
locations in Ward 13 of the City of
Cleveland; provided, however, that
such operations are conducted in
accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the Division of Licenses and Assessments.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 1173-01.
By Councilman Cimperman.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
St.
Clair/Superior
Neighborhood
Development Association to stretch
banners at the intersections of East
55th Street and St. Clair Avenue and
East
55th
Street
and
Superior
Avenue, for the period from June 21,
2001 to July 7, 2001, inclusive, publicizing the St. Clair/Superior Neighborhood Festival.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances, of Cleveland,
Ohio, 1976, the Director of the

June 20, 2001
Department of Public Service is
hereby authorized and directed to
issue a permit to the St. Clair/Superior
Neighborhood
Development
Association to install, maintain and
remove banners at the intersections
of East 55th Street and St. Clair
Avenue and East 55th Street and
Superior Avenue for the period from
June 21, 2001 to July 7, 2001, inclusive. Said banner shall be approved
by the Director of Public Service, in
consultation with the Director of
Public Safety, as to type, method of
affixing and location so as not to
interfere with any sign erected and
maintained under the requirements
of law or ordinance. The permission
of the owner of any pole from which
a banner will be hung must be
obtained prior to issuance of the
permit. No commercial advertising
shall be printed or permitted on said
banner and said banner shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 1174-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Lexington, Quimby
and Linwood Avenues to Famicos
Foundation.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
adopted
and
implemented
procedures under Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code to facilitate
reutilization of nonproductive lands
situated within the City of Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program, is acquired, held, administered and disposed of by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
of Community Development under
the terms of Chapter 5722 of the
Ohio Revised Code and Section
183.021 of Codified Ordinances of the
City of Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-12-001 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to Section 1 of
this
Ordinance
is
more
fully
described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-12-001
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
5 in Holden and Halle’s Allotment
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the

The City Record
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 50 feet front on
the Easterly side of East 66th Street
(formerly Dunham Avenue) and
extending back of equal width 138
feet along the Southerly line of
Lawnview Avenue, N.E., (formerly
Astor Avenue) to the Westerly line
of an alley in the rear, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
Section 3. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-12-031 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation.
Section 4. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-12-031
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
341 and being Sublot No. 13 in the
Holden and Halle’s Allotment as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps, Page 14 of Cuyahoga
County Records and being 40 feet
front on the Northerly side of Linwood Avenue, N.E., (formerly Payne
Avenue)
and
extending
back
between parallel lines, 128 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 5. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-12-032 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation.
Section 6. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-12-032
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
14 in Holden and Halle’s Subdivision
of a part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the
Northerly
side
of
Linwood
Avenue, N.E., (formerly Beecher
Street) and extends back between
parallel lines, 128 feet, as appears
by said plat, be the same more or
less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 7. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 106-12-037 as
more fully described to Famicos
Foundation.
Section 8. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 106-12-037
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
41 in Holden and Halle’s Allotment

1417

115
of part of Original One Hundred
Acre Lot No. 341, as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 7 of Maps,
Page
14
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Southerly side of Lawnview
Avenue,
N.E.,
(formerly
Aster
Avenue), and extending back of
equal width 128 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 9. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel Nos. 104-19-029 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation.
Section 10. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-19-029
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Sublot No. 66 in the Luther and
Arville Moses’ Subdivision of part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
340, as shown by the recorded plat
in Volume 5 of Maps, Page 48 of
Cuyahoga
County
Records,
and
bounded and described as follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Lexington Avenue, N.E., at the
Southwesterly corner of said Sublot
No. 66; thence Easterly along the
Northerly line of Lexington Avenue,
N.E., 52 feet 6 inches to the Southwesterly corner of land conveyed to
Lilly Razek by deed dated September 8, 1933, and recorded in Volume
4315, Page 150 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence Northerly along the
Westerly line of land so conveyed
150 feet to the Northerly line of said
Sublot No. 66; thence Westerly along
the Northerly line of Sublot No. 66,
52 feet 8 inches to the Northwesterly corner thereof; thence Southerly
along the Westerly line of said
Sublot No. 66, 150 feet to the place
of beginning, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 11. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell,
Permanent Parcel No. 104-19-030 as
more fully described below, to Famico’s Foundation.
Section 12. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-19-030
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
64 in Luther and Arvilla Moses
Allotment of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 340, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Lexington
Avenue, N.E., and extending back of
equal
width
150
feet
deep,
as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 13. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell

116
Permanent Parcel No. 104-19-034 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation.
Section 14. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-19-034
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
56 in Luther and Arvilla Moses Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 340, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Lexington
Avenue and extending back of equal
width 150 feet deep, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Section 15. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-19-036 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation.
Section 16. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-19-036
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
52 in Luther Moses Subdivision of
part of Original One Hundred Acre
Lot No. 340, as shown by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of Maps, Page
48 of Cuyahoga County Records and
being 40 feet front on the Northerly
side of Lexington Avenue, and
extending back of equal width 150
feet deep, as appears by said plat,
be the same more or less, but subject to all legal highways.
Section 17. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-19-044 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation.
Section 18. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-19-044
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
36 in Luther and Arvilla Moses’ Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 340, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Lexington
Avenue,
N.E.,
(formerly
Moses
Avenue), and extending back of
equal width 150 feet, as appears by
said plat, be the same more or less,
but subject to all legal highways.
Section 19. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-19-045 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation.
Section 20. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-19-045
Situated in the City of Cleveland,

The City Record
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
34 in Luther and Aarvill Moses’ Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 340, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga County
Records and being 40 feet front on
the Northerly side of Lexington
Avenue,
N.E.,
(formerly
Moses
Avenue) and extending back of
equal width 150 feet, appears by
said plat.
Section 21. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-20-100 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation.
Section 22. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-20-100
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
17 in Luther and Arvilla Moses’ Subdivision of part of Original One
Hundred Acre Lot No. 340, as shown
by the recorded plat in Volume 5 of
Maps, Page 48 of Cuyahoga Records,
and being 40 feet front on the
Southerly side of Lexington Avenue,
N.E., and extending back of equal
width, 150 feet, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to zoning ordinances.
Section 23. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-21-085 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation.
Section 24. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-21-085
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.
340 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning at a point on the
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E., distant 800 feet Easterly (measured along said Northerly line),
from the Easterly line of East 55th
Street; thence Easterly along said
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E., 40 feet; thence Northerly parallel with said Easterly line of East
55th Street, 140 feet; thence Westerly parallel with said Northerly line
of Quimby Avenue, N.E., 40 feet;
thence Southerly parallel with said
Easterly line of East 55th Street, 140
feet to the place of beginning.
Section 25. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No. 104-21-088 as
more fully described below, to Famicos Foundation.
Section 26. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this Ordinance is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 104-21-088
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being part of
Original One Hundred Acre Lot No.

1418

June 20, 2001
340 and bounded and described as
follows:
Beginning on the Northerly line of
Quimby Avenue, N.E., 930 feet Easterly measured along said Northerly
line, from its point of intersection
with the Easterly line of East 55th
Street; thence Easterly along said
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E.; 40 feet; thence Northerly on a
line parallel to said Easterly line of
East 55th Street, 140 feet; thence
Westerly on a line parallel to said
Northerly line of Quimby Avenue,
N.E., 40 feet; thence Southerly 140
feet to the place of beginning, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 27. That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 28. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 29. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 30. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 1175-01.
By Councilman Lewis.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Sagamore Avenue to
Steven Broadnax and Karla Broadnax.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio

June 20, 2001
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 118-09-103
and
118-09-104,
as
more
fully
described below, to Steven Broadnax
and Karla Broadnax.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 118-09-103
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
14 in George M. Spangler’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 339 and 342, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 24 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 35
feet front on the Northerly side of
Sagamore Avenue, N.E., and extending back of equal width 110 feet
deep, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Also subject to all zoning ordinances, if any.
P. P. No. 118-09-104
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot No.
15 in George M. Spangler’s Subdivision of part of Original One Hundred Acre Lots Nos. 342 and 339, as
shown by the recorded plat in Volume 24 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records and being 35
feet front on the Northerly side of
Sagamore Avenue, N.E., and extending back of equal width 110 feet, as
appears by said plat, be the same
more or less, but subject to all legal
highways.
Subject to Zoning Ordinances, if
any.
Section 3. That all documents necessary to complete the conveyance
authorized by this ordinance shall
be executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance. If all of the documents are
not executed within six (6) months
of the effective date of this ordinance, or such additional time as
may be granted by the Director of
Community Development, this ordinance shall be repealed and shall be
of no further force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.

The City Record
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 1176-01.
By Councilman Patmon.
An emergency ordinance authorizing and directing the Director of
Public Service to issue a permit to
Mr. Larry Lumpkin, to hang 10 Banners on E. 105th St. using Cleveland
Public Power utility poles (by separate permission) for the period of
June 10, 2001 to July 10, 2001, inclusive celebrating the Grand Opening
of the Glenville Community’s Youth
Opportunity Center.
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That notwithstanding
the provision of Section 623.13 of the
Codified Ordinances of Cleveland,
Ohio 1976, the Director of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to issue a permit to Mr. Larry
Lumpkin to hang ten (10) Banners
on various locations on East 105th
Street to celebrate the Grand Opening of the Glenville Community’s
Your
Opportunity
Center,
using
Cleveland Public Power utility poles
(by separate permission) for the
period of June 10, 2001 to July 10,
2001, inclusive, and which Banners
are to be hung at the following locations and pole numbers: On East
105th Street: On the 5th pole North
of St. Clair (W), #NE6-104-5; On the
6th pole North of St. Clair (W),
#NE6-104-6; On the 7th pole North of
St. Clair (W), #NE6-104-7; On the 8th
pole North of St. Clair, #NE6-104-7A;
On the 9th pole North of St. Clair
(W), #NE6-104-8; On the 10th pole
North of St. Clair (W), #NE6-104-9;
On the 11th pole North of St. Clair
(W), #NE6-104-10; On the 12th pole
North of St. Clair (W), #NE6-104-11;
On the 13th pole North of St. Clair
(W), #NE6-104-12; On the 14th pole
North of St. Clair (W), #NE6-104-13;
and which poles location and Banners shall be approved by the Director of Public Service in consultation
with the Director of Public Safety,
as to type, method of affixing and
location so as not to interfere with
any sign erected and maintained
under the requirements of law or
ordinance. The permission of the
owner of any pole from which a banner will be hung must be obtained
prior to issuance of the permit. No
commercial
advertising
shall
be
printed or permitted on said Banners, and said Banners shall be
removed promptly upon the expiration of said permit.
Section 2. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and provided it receives the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all
the members elected to Council, it
shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

1419

117
Ord. No. 1177-01.
By Councilman Polensek.
An emergency ordinance to repeal
existing Sections 103.01 to 103.21,
inclusive, of the Codified Ordinances
of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, as enacted
by Ordinance No. 1565-91, passed
June 17, 1991, Ordinance No. 2457-92,
passed December 14, 1992, Ordinance
No. 688-93, passed March 29, 1993 and
Ordinance No. 459-93, passed March
1, 1993, respectively, and to supplement the Codified Ordinances of
Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, by enacting
new Sections 103.01 to 103.21, inclusive, relating to Wards of the City
of Cleveland.
Whereas, pursuant to Section 25-1
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, the Council of the City of
Cleveland
must
reapportion
and
redivide the Wards of the City of
Cleveland each ten years commensurate with the federal Census and
must reapportion the wards so as to
be nearly equal in population, be
composed of contiguous and compact territory and be bound by natural boundaries and street lines; and
Whereas, the Council has fulfilled
this duty by reapportioning the
Wards using a methodology based
on official U. S. Census definitions
of census tract blocks and their enumerated populations as of April 1,
2000; and
Whereas, pursuant to Section 25-1
of the Charter of the City of Cleveland, the Council hereby reapportions and redivides the Wards of the
City of Cleveland as set forth below;
and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore,
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That existing Sections
103.01 to 103.21, inclusive, of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio,
1976, Ordinance No. 1565-91, passed
June 17, 1991, Ordinance No. 2457-92,
passed December 14, 1992, Ordinance
No. 688-93, passed March 29, 1993 and
Ordinance No. 459-93, passed March
1, 1993, are hereby repealed effective
January 7, 2002.
Section 2. That the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio, 1976, are
hereby supplemented by enacting
new Sections 103.01 to 103.21,inclusive, which shall be effective for the
purpose of nominating and electing
members of the Cleveland City
Council in the year 2001, for terms
commencing in 2002, and thereafter
and for all purposes on and after
January 7, 2002, to read respectively as follows, with maps identifying
such areas attached hereto and
incorporated herein as File No. 117701-A:
Section 103.01 Ward One
The boundaries of Ward 1 shall be
as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of East 136th Street
and the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Garfield Heights; thence northerly
along the center line of East 136th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Beachwood Avenue,
S.E.; thence westerly along the center line of Beachwood Avenue, S.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 133rd Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 133rd Street to its intersection
with
the
center
line
of
Caine
Avenue, S.E.; thence northwesterly
along the center line of Caine

118
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 131st Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 131st Street to its intersection with the center line of Miles
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Miles Avenue, S.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 135th Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 135th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Marston
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Marston Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 136th Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 136th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Harvard
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Harvard Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 141st Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 141st Street to its intersection
with the center line of Benwood
Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along
the center line of Benwood Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 140th Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 140th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Glendale
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Glendale Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 154th Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 154th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Bartlett
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Bartlett Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the City of Shaker
Heights; thence southerly and easterly along the dividing line between
the City of Cleveland and the City
of Shaker Heights to the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and
the
City
of
Warrensville
Heights; thence southerly, westerly,
southerly, southeasterly, southerly,
westerly, and southerly along the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the City of Warrensville Heights to its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Maple
Heights;
thence
westerly
along the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Maple Heights to its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Garfield Heights; thence northerly,
westerly,
northerly,
westerly,
southerly, westerly, southerly, westerly, northerly, westerly, northerly
and westerly along the dividing line
between the City of Cleveland and
the City of Garfield Heights to the
place of beginning.
Section 103.02 Ward Two
The boundaries of Ward Two
shall be as follows:
Beginning in the center line of
East 136th Street at its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Garfield Heights; thence westerly,
southerly, and westerly along the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the City of Garfield
Heights to the center line of Warner Road, S.E.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Warner
Road, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Beman Avenue,
S.E.; thence westerly along the center line of Beman Avenue, S.E. and
its westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the center line of
the main line tracks of the CSX

The City Record
Railroad; thence northeasterly along
the center line of the main line
tracks of the CSX Railroad to its
intersection with the southerly prolongation of the center line of East
80th Street; thence northerly along
the southerly prolongation and the
center line of East 80th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Finney Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along the center line of Finney
Avenue, S.E. and its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
center line of the main line tracks
of the NS Railroad; thence northeasterly along the center line of the
main line tracks of the NS Railroad
to its intersection with the center
line
of
Broadway,
S.E.;
thence
northwesterly along the center line
of Broadway, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Wire Avenue,
S.E.; thence easterly along the center line of Wire Avenue, S.E. and its
easterly prolongation to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the W & LE
Railroad;
thence
northerly
and
northwesterly along the center line
of the main line tracks of the W &
LE Railroad to its intersection with
the center line of East 78th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 78th Street to its intersection with the center line of Union
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Union Avenue, S.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 93rd Street; thence
southerly along the center line of
East 93rd Street to its intersection
with the center line of Benham
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Benham Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 110th Street; thence
southerly along the center line of
East 110th Street and southeasterly
and easterly along the center line of
Glenboro Drive, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive, S.E.; thence
northerly along the center line of
Martin Luther King Jr. Drive, S.E.
and East 116th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Craven Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along the center line of Craven
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 118th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 118th Street to its intersection with the center line of Rexford Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Rexford
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 129th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 129th Street to its intersection with the center line of Holborn Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Holborn
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 131st Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 131st Street to its intersection with the center line of Harvard Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Harvard
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 136th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 136th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Marston Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along the center line of Marston
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 135th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 135th Street to its intersection with the center line of Miles
Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along
the center line of Miles Avenue, S.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 131st Street; thence

1420

June 20, 2001
southerly along the center line of
East 131st Street to its intersection
with
the
center
line
of
Caine
Avenue, S.E.; thence southeasterly
along the center line of Caine
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 133rd Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 133rd Street to its intersection with the center line of
Beachwood
Avenue,
S.E.;
thence
easterly along the center line of
Beachwood Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
136th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 136th Street
to the place of beginning.
Section 103.03 Ward Three
The boundaries of Ward Three
shall be as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of Bartlett Avenue,
S.E. with the dividing line between
the City of Cleveland and the City
of Shaker Heights; thence westerly
along the center line of Bartlett
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 154th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 154th Street to its intersection with the center line of Glendale Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly
along the center line of Glendale
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 140th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 140th Street to its intersection with the center line of Benwood Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Benwood
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 141st Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 141st Street to its intersection with the center line of Harvard Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly
along the center line of Harvard
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 131st Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 131st Street to its intersection with the center line of Holborn Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly
along the center line of Holborn
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 129th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 129th Street to its intersection with the center line of Rexford Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly
along the center line of Rexford
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 118th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 118th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Craven Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along the center line of Craven
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 116th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 116th Street and Martin
Luther King Jr. Drive, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
Glenboro Drive, S.E.; thence westerly and northwesterly along the center line of Glenboro Drive, S.E. and
northerly along the center line of
East 110th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Benham
Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along
the center line of Benham Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 93rd Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 93rd Street to its intersection
with
the
center
line
of
Union
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Union Avenue, S.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 102nd Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 102nd Street to its intersection
with the center line of Kingsbury

June 20, 2001
Boulevard, S.E.; thence northwesterly along the center line of Kingsbury Boulevard, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Kinsman
Road, S.E.; thence northwesterly
along the center line of Kinsman
Road, S.E. to its intersection with
the southwesterly prolongation of
the center line of Ramona Boulevard,
S.E.;
thence
northeasterly
along said prolongation and easterly along the center line of Ramona
Boulevard, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Audubon
Boulevard, S.E.; thence northerly
along the center line of Audubon
Boulevard, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Dickens
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Dickens Avenue,
S.E. and the center line of Parkhill
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 111th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 111th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Lardet Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly
along the center line at Lardet
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
East 116th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of East 116th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Parkhill Avenue, S.E.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Parkhill Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
123rd Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 123rd Street
to the center line of Imperial
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Imperial Avenue,
S.E. to the center line of East 130th
Street; thence southerly along the
center line of East 130th Street to
its intersection with the center line
of Abell Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along the center line of Abell
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 128th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 128th Street to its intersection with the center line of Metcalf Avenue S.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Metcalf
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 132nd Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 132nd Street to its intersection with the center line of
Gabriel Court, S.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Gabriel
Court, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 137th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 137th Street to its intersection with the center line of Byron
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Byron Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 140th Street; thence
southerly along the center line of
East 140th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Kinsman
Road, S.E.; thence easterly along the
center line of Kinsman Road, S.E. to
its intersection with the center line
of East 145th Street; thence northerly along the center line of East
145th Street to its intersection with
the center line of Spear Avenue,
S.E.; thence easterly along the center line of Spear Avenue, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 149th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of East 149th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Kinsman Road, S.E.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Kinsman Road, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
150th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of East 150th Street
to its intersection with the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and the City of Shaker Heights;

The City Record
thence easterly, southerly, westerly
and southerly along the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and the City of Shaker Heights to
the place of beginning.
Section 103.04 Ward Four
The boundaries of Ward Four
shall be as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the dividing line between the City
of Cleveland and the City of Shaker Heights with the center line of
East 130th Street; thence easterly,
southerly, easterly, southerly and
easterly along the dividing line
between the City of Cleveland and
the City of Shaker Heights to its
intersection with the center line of
East 150th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of East 150th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Kinsman Road, S.E.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Kinsman Road, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 149th Street; thence northerly
along the center line of East 149th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Spear Avenue, S.E.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Spear Avenue, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 145th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of East 145th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Kinsman Road, S.E.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Kinsman Road, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 140th Street; thence northerly
along the center line of East 140th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Byron Avenue, S.E.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Byron Avenue, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 137th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of East 137th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Gabriel Court, S.E.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Gabriel Court, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 132nd Street; thence northerly
along the center line of East 132nd
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Metcalf Avenue, S.E.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Metcalf Avenue, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 128th Street; thence northerly
along the center line of East 128th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Abell Avenue, S.E.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Abell Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
130th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of East 130th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Imperial Avenue, S.E.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Imperial Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
123rd Street; thence northerly along
the center line of East 123rd Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Parkhill Avenue, S.E.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Parkhill Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
116th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of East 116th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Lardet Avenue, S.E.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Lardet Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
111th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 111th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Parkhill Avenue, S.E.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Parkhill Avenue, S.E. and Dickens

1421

119
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Audubon Boulevard, S.E.; thence southerly along
the center line of Audubon Boulevard, S.E. to its intersection with the
center line of Ramona Boulevard,
S.E.; thence westerly and southwesterly along the center line of
Ramona Boulevard, S.E. and its
southwesterly prolongation to its
intersection with the center line of
Kinsman Road, S.E.; thence northwesterly along the center line of
Kinsman Road, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of the main
line tracks of the NS Railroad;
thence northerly and northwesterly
along the center line of the main
line tracks of the NS Railroad to its
intersection with the center line of
Grand Avenue, S.E.; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Grand Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Buckeye
Road, S.E.; thence northwesterly
along the center line of Buckeye
Road, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Woodland Avenue,
S.E.; thence easterly along the center line of Woodland Avenue, S.E. to
its intersection with the center line
of Woodhill Road, S.E.; thence southwesterly along the center line of
Woodhill Road, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Shaker
Boulevard, S.E.; thence northeasterly along the center line of Shaker
Boulevard, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 103rd
Street; thence southerly along the
center line of East 103rd Street to
its intersection with the center line
of Buckeye Road, S.E.; thence southeasterly along the center line of
Buckeye Road, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of the
south bound lanes of South Moreland Boulevard, S.E.; thence northerly along the center line of the south
bound lanes of South Moreland
Boulevard, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line at Drexmore
Road, S.E.; thence westerly along
the center line of Drexmore Road,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 128th Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 128th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Williams
Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along
the center line of Williams Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 121st Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 121st Street to its intersection
with the center line of Shaker
Boulevard,
S.E.;
thence
easterly
along the center line of Shaker
Boulevard, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 130th
Street; thence northerly along the
center line of East 130th Street to
the place of beginning.
Section 103.05 Ward Five
The boundaries of Ward 5 shall be
as follows:
Beginning in the center line of
Chester Avenue, N.E. at its intersection with the center line of East
73rd Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 73rd Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Euclid Avenue; thence easterly along the center line of Euclid
Avenue to its intersection with the
center line of East 77th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 77th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Carnegie Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly
along
the
center
line
of
Carnegie Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
77th Street; thence southerly along

120
the center line of East 77th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Cedar Avenue, S.E.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Cedar Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
79th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 79th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Central Avenue, S.E.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Central Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
77th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 77th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Quincy Avenue, S.E.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Quincy Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
79th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 79th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Woodland Avenue, S.E.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Woodland Avenue, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
Buckeye Road, S.E.; thence southeasterly along the center line of
Buckeye Road, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Grand
Avenue, S.E.; thence southwesterly
along the center line of Grand
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS Railroad; thence
southeasterly and southerly along
the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS Railroad to its
intersection with the center line of
Kinsman Road, S.E.; thence southeasterly along the center line of
Kinsman Road, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Kingsbury Boulevard, S.E.; thence southerly and southeasterly along the center line of Kingsbury Boulevard,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 102nd Street; thence
southerly along the center line of
East 102nd Street to its intersection
with
the
center
line
of
Union
Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along
the center line of Union Avenue,
S.E., to its intersection with the center line of the main line tracks of
the NS Railroad; thence northerly
and northwesterly along the center
line of the main line tracks of the
NS Railroad to its intersection with
the center line of East 79th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 79th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Bessemer Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly and northwesterly along the
center line of Bessemer Avenue, S.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 66th Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 66th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Hoppensack
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the
center
line
of
Hoppensack
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 68th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 68th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Rogers Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along the center line of Rogers
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 67th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 67th Street to its intersection with the center line of Lederer Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly
along the center line of Lederer
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 65th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 65th Street to its intersection with the center line of Newman Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Newman

The City Record
Avenue, S.E. and its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the
northeasterly line of Parcel 3 of
land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by deed recorded in Volume
8419, Page 323 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence northwesterly and
northerly along the curved northeasterly line of said Parcel 3 of land
so conveyed to the City of Cleveland
and the easterly line of a parcel of
land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by deed recorded in Volume
6867, Page 318 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and the northwesterly prolongation of the curved northeasterly line of land so conveyed to the
City of Cleveland to its intersection
with the center line of Sidaway
Avenue,
S.E.
(proposed);
thence
along a direct line parallel with the
center line of Kinsman Road, S.E. to
its intersection with the center line
of the main line tracks of the NS
Railroad;
thence
southwesterly
along the center line of the main
line tracks of the NS Railroad to its
intersection with the center line of
East 55th Street; thence southerly
and southwesterly along the center
line of East 55th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Hamm Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along the center line of Hamm
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 52nd Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 52nd Street to its intersection with the center line of Guy
Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along
the center line of Guy Avenue, S.E.
and its westerly prolongation to its
intersection with the center line of
Interstate 77; thence southerly along
the center line of Interstate 77 to its
intersection with the center line of
Morgana Avenue, S.E. sewer; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of the Morgana Avenue, S.E. sewer
to its intersection with the center
line of the Cuyahoga River; thence
northwesterly, westerly and southwesterly along the meandering center line of the Cuyahoga River to its
intersection with the center line of
West 3rd Street; thence northwesterly along the center line of West
3rd Street to its intersection with
the center line of the Hope Memorial
Bridge;
thence
northeasterly
along the center line of the Hope
Memorial Bridge and the center line
of Carnegie Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
9th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 9th Street to
its intersection with the northwesterly right of way line of the Inner
Belt Freeway; thence northeasterly
along the northwesterly right of
way line of the Inner Belt Freeway
to its intersection with the center
line of East 13th Street; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of East 13th Street to its intersection with the center line of Carnegie
Avenue, S.E.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Carnegie
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 14th Street;
thence northwesterly along the center line of East 14th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Huntington Court, S.E., (now vacated); thence northeasterly along the
center line of Huntington Court, S.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 18th Street; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of East 18th Street to its intersection with the center line of Euclid
Avenue; thence northeasterly along
the center line of Euclid Avenue to
its intersection with the center line
of East 21st Street; thence south-

1422

June 20, 2001
easterly along the center line of
East 21st Street to its intersection
with the center line of Prospect
Avenue, S.E.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Prospect
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 55th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 55th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Chester Avenue, N.E.; thence easterly along the center line of Chester
Avenue, N.E. to the place of beginning.
Section 103.06 Ward Six
The boundaries of Ward 6 shall be
as follows:
Beginning in the center line of
Euclid Avenue at its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
East
Cleveland;
thence
easterly
along said dividing line to its intersection
with
the
dividing
line
between the City of Cleveland and
the
City
of
Cleveland
Heights;
thence southerly, westerly, southerly, southwesterly, southerly, westerly,
southerly
and
southeasterly
along said dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Cleveland Heights to its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Shaker Heights; thence southerly
and southeasterly along the dividing line between the City of Cleveland and the City of Shaker Heights
to its intersection with the center
line of East 130th Street; thence
southerly along the center line of
East 130th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Shaker
Boulevard,
S.E.;
thence
westerly
along the center line of Shaker
Boulevard, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 121st
Street; thence southerly along the
center line of East 121st Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Williams Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly
along
the
center
line
of
Williams Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
128th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 128th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Drexmore Road, S.E.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Drexmore Road, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of the
south bound lanes of South Moreland Boulevard, S.E.; thence southerly along the center line of the south
bound lanes of South Moreland
Boulevard, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Buckeye
Road, S.E.; thence northwesterly
along the center line of Buckeye
Road, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 103rd Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 103rd Street to its intersection with the center line of Shaker Boulevard, S.E.; thence southwesterly along the center line of
Shaker Boulevard, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of
Woodhill Road, S.E.; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Woodhill Road, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Woodland Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly
along the center line of Woodland
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 79th Street;
thence northerly along center line of
East 79th Street, to its intersection
with the center line of Quincy
Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along
the center line of Quincy Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 77th Street; thence

June 20, 2001
northerly along the center line of
East 77th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Central
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Central Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 79th Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 79th Street to its intersection
with
the
center
line
of
Cedar
Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along
the center line of Cedar Avenue, S.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 77th Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 77th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Carnegie
Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along
the center line of Carnegie Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 77th Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 77th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Euclid
Avenue; thence westerly along the
center line of Euclid Avenue to its
intersection with the center line of
East 73rd Street; thence northerly
along the center line of East 73rd
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Chester Avenue, N.E.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Chester Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
101st Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 101st Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Euclid Avenue; thence easterly along the center line of Euclid
Avenue to its intersection with the
center line of East 105th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 105th Street to its intersection with the center line of Park
Lane Avenue, N.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Park Lane
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Stokes Boulevard,
N.E.; thence southerly along the center line of Stokes Boulevard, N.E. to
its intersection with the center line
of Deering Avenue, S.E.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Deering Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
109th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 109th Street
to its intersection with the center
line
of
Carnegie
Avenue,
S.E.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Carnegie Avenue, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
Stokes Boulevard, S.E.; thence southeasterly along the center line of
Stokes Boulevard, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the NS Railroad;
thence northeasterly along the center line of the main line tracks of
the NS Railroad to its intersection
with the center line of Adelbert
Road, S.E.; thence northwesterly
along the center line of Adelbert
Road, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Circle Drive, S.E.;
thence northeasterly along the center line of Circle Drive, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
Cornell Road, S.E.; thence northwesterly along the center line of
Cornell Road, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Circle Drive,
S.E.;
thence
northeasterly
and
northerly along the center line of
Circle Drive, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Mayfield
Road, S.E.; thence northerly and
northwesterly along the center line
of East 116th Street, (now vacated),
to its intersection with the center
line of Euclid Avenue; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Euclid Avenue to the place of beginning.

The City Record
Section 103.07 Ward Seven
The boundaries of Ward 7 shall
be as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of east 45th Street
and the center line of Superior
Avenue, N.E.; thence southeasterly
along the center line of East 45th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Payne Avenue, N.E.;
thence southwesterly along the center line of Payne Avenue, N.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 40th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of East 40th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Chester Avenue, N.E.;
thence southwesterly along the center line of Chester Avenue, N.E. to
its intersection with the center line
of the Inner Belt Freeway; thence
southerly along the center line of
the Inner Belt Freeway to its intersection with the center line of
Euclid Avenue; thence southwesterly along the center line of Euclid
Avenue to its intersection with the
center line of East 21st Street;
thence southeasterly along the center line of East 21st Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Prospect Avenue, S.E.; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Prospect Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
55th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of East 55th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Chester Avenue, N.E.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Chester Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
101st Street; thence northerly along
the center line of East 101st Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Ansel Road, N.E.; thence
northwesterly, northerly, northeasterly and northwesterly along the
center line of Ansel Road, N.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
Bellevue Avenue, N.E.; thence westerly along the center line of Bellevue Avenue, N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 79th
Street; thence northerly along the
center line of East 79th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Korman Avenue, N.E.; thence westerly along the center line of Korman Avenue, N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 78th
Street; thence southerly along the
center line of East 78th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Donald Avenue, N.E.; thence westerly along the center line of Donald
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 77th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 77th Street to its intersection with the center line of Korman Avenue, N.E.; thence westerly
along the center line of Korman
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 74th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 74th Street to its intersection with the center line St. Clair
Avenue, N.E.; thence southwesterly
along the center line of St. Clair
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 70th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 70th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Machinery
Avenue,
N.E.;
thence
westerly along the center line of
Machinery Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
69th Place; thence southerly along
the center line of East 69th Place to
its intersection with the center line
of Arctic Court, N.E. (now vacated);
thence westerly along the center
line of Arctic Court, N.E. (now

1423

121
vacated) to its intersection with the
center line of East 69th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 69th Street to its intersection with the center line of Arctic Court, N.E.; thence westerly
along the center line of Arctic
Court, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 67th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 67th Street to its intersection with the center line of St.
Clair Avenue, N.E.; thence northeasterly along the center line of St.
Clair Avenue, N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 68th
Street; thence southeasterly along
the center line of East 68th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Bliss Avenue, N.E.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Bliss Avenue, N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 66th
Street; thence northwesterly along
the center line of East 66th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Bliss Avenue, N.E.; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of Bliss Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Addison Road, N.E.; thence southeasterly
along the center line of Addison
Road, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Bonna Avenue,
N.E.; thence southwesterly along the
center line of Bonna Avenue, N.E. to
its intersection with the center line
of
Norwood
Road,
N.E.;
thence
southerly along the center line of
Norwood Road, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Superior Avenue, N.E.; thence westerly and
southwesterly along the center line
of Superior Avenue, N.E. to the place
of beginning.
Section 103.08 Ward Eight
The boundaries of Ward 8 shall be
as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the shore line of Lake
Erie and the dividing line between
the City of Cleveland and the City
of Bratenahl; thence in a general
southwesterly direction along the
irregular shore line of Lake Erie to
its intersection with the northerly
prolongation of the center line of
East 55th Street; thence southerly
along the northerly prolongation
and the center line of East 55th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of the main line tracks
of the CSX Railroad; thence northeasterly along the center line of the
main line tracks of the CSX Railroad to its intersection with the
northerly prolongation of the center
line of Addison Road, N.E.; thence
southerly along the center line of
Addison Road, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of St. Clair
Avenue, N.E.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of St. Clair
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 67th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 67th Street to its intersection with the center line of Arctic Court, N.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Arctic Court, N.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 69th Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 69th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Arctic Court,
N.E. (now vacated); thence easterly
along the center line of Arctic
Court, N.E. (now vacated) to its
intersection with the center line of
East 69th Place; thence northerly
along the center line of East 69th
Place to its intersection with the
center line of Machinery Avenue,
N.E.; thence easterly along the cen-

122
ter line at Machinery Avenue, N.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 70th Street; thence
southerly along the center line of
East 70th Street to its intersection
with the center line of St. Clair
Avenue, N.E.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of St. Clair
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 74th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 74th Street to its intersection with the center line of Korman Avenue, N.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Korman
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 77th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 77th Street to its intersection with the center line of Donald Avenue, N.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Donald
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 78th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 78th Street to its intersection with the center line of Korman Avenue, N.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Korman
Avenue,
N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 79th
Street; thence southerly along the
center line of East 79th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Bellevue Avenue, N.E.; thence easterly along the center line of Bellevue Avenue, N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Ansel Road,
N.E.; thence southeasterly, southwesterly, southerly and southeasterly along the center line of Ansel
Road, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 101st Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 101st Street to its intersection with the center line of
Euclid
Avenue;
thence
easterly
along the center line of Euclid
Avenue to its intersection with the
center line of East 105th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 105th Street to its intersection with the center line of Park
Lane Avenue, N.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Park Lane
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Stokes Boulevard,
N.E.; thence southerly along the center line of Stokes Boulevard, N.E. to
its intersection with the center line
of Euclid Avenue; thence easterly
and northeasterly along the center
line of Euclid Avenue to its intersection with the center line of East
Boulevard, N.E.; thence northerly,
northeasterly, northerly and northwesterly along the center line of
East Boulevard, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Hazel
Drive, N.E.; thence northeasterly and
northerly along the center line of
Hazel Drive, N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Magnolia
Drive, N.E.; thence southeasterly
along the center line of Magnolia
Drive, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Mistletoe Drive,
N.E.; thence northerly along the center line of Mistletoe Drive, N.E. to
its intersection with the center line
of Wade Park Avenue, N.E.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Wade Park Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
106th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of East 106th Street
to its intersection with the centerline of Ashbury Avenue, N.E.; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of Ashbury Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
105th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of East 105th Street
to its intersection with the center
line
of
Churchill
Avenue,
N.E.;

The City Record
thence easterly along the center line
of Churchill Avenue, N.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 108th Street; thence northerly
along the center line of East 108th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Hull Avenue, N.E.;
thence northeasterly along the center line of Hull Avenue, N.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 110th Street; thence northerly
along the center line of East 110th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Superior Avenue, N.E.;
thence continuing northerly along
the center line of Parkwood Avenue,
N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Primrose Avenue, N.E.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Primrose Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Linn
Drive, N.E.; thence northerly along
the center line of Linn Drive, N.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of Tuscora Avenue, N.E.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Tuscora Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Lakeview Road, N.E.; thence northerly
along the center line of Lakeview
Road, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of St. Clair Avenue,
N.E.; thence northerly along the center line of East 110th Street to its
intersection with the southwesterly
extension of the center line of
Hazeldell Road, N.E.; thence northeasterly along the center line of the
southwesterly
extension
of
Hazeldell Road, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Dundee
Drive, N.E.; thence northwesterly
along the prolongation of the center
line of Dundee Drive, N.E. to its
intersection with the dividing line
between the City of Cleveland and
the City of Bratenahl; thence southwesterly and northerly along the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the City of Bratenahl
to the place of beginning.
Section 103.09 Ward Nine
The boundaries of Ward 9 shall be
as follows:
Beginning at the point of intersection of the center line of Eddy
Road, N.E. and the dividing line
between the City of Cleveland and
the City of Bratenahl; thence southeasterly and southerly along the
center line of Eddy Road, N.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
St. Clair Avenue, N.E.; thence easterly along the center line of St.
Clair Avenue, N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 124th
Street; thence southerly along the
center line of East 124th Street to
its intersection with the center line
of Brackland Avenue, N.E.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Brackland Avenue, N.E. and its prolongation to its intersection with the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the City of East
Cleveland; thence along the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and the City of East Cleveland,
southerly, westerly, southerly and
easterly to its intersection with the
center line of Euclid Avenue; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of Euclid Avenue to its intersection
with the center line of East 116th
Street, (now vacated); thence southeasterly and southerly, along the
center line of East 116th Street,
(now vacated) to its intersection
with the center line of Mayfield
Road, S.E.; thence southerly and
southwesterly along the center line
of Circle Drive, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Cornell
Road,
S.E.;
thence
southeasterly

1424

June 20, 2001
along the center line of Cornell
Road, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Circle Drive, S.E.;
thence southwesterly along the center line of Circle Drive, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
Adelbert Road, S.E.; thence southeasterly along the center line of
Adelbert Road, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of the main
line tracks of the NS Railroad;
thence southwesterly along the center line of the main line tracks of
the NS Railroad to its intersection
with the center line of Stokes Boulevard,
S.E.;
thence
northwesterly
along the center line of Stokes
Boulevard, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Carnegie
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Carnegie Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 109th Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
East 109th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Deering
Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along
the center line of Deering Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Stokes Boulevard, S.E.;
thence northerly along the center
line of Stokes Boulevard, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
Euclid Avenue; thence easterly and
northeasterly along the centerline of
Euclid Avenue to its intersection
with the centerline of East Boulevard, N.E.; thence northerly, northeasterly, northerly and northwesterly along the center line of East
Boulevard, N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Hazel Drive,
N.E.;
thence
northeasterly
and
northerly along the center line of
Hazel Drive, N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Magnolia
Drive, N.E.; thence southeasterly
along the center line of Magnolia
Drive, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Mistletoe Drive,
N.E.; thence northerly along the center line of Mistletoe Drive, N.E. to
its intersection with the center line
of Wade Park Avenue, N.E.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Wade Park Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
106th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of East 106th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Ashbury Avenue, N.E.; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of Ashbury Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
105th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of East 105th Street
to its intersection with the center
line
of
Churchill
Avenue,
N.E.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Churchill Avenue, N.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 108th Street; thence northerly
along the center line of East 108th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Hull Avenue, N.E.;
thence northeasterly along the center line of Hull Avenue, N.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 110th Street; thence northerly
along the center line of East 110th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Superior Avenue, N.E.;
thence continuing northerly along
the center line of Parkwood Drive,
N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Primrose Avenue, N.E.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Primrose Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Linn
Drive, N.E.; thence northerly along
the center line of Linn Drive, N.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of Tuscora Avenue, N.E.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Tuscora Avenue, N.E. to its inter-

June 20, 2001
section with the center line of Lakeview Road, N.E.; thence northerly
along the center line of Lakeview
Road, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of St. Clair Avenue,
N.E.; thence northerly along the center line of East 110th Street to its
intersection with the southwesterly
extension of the center line of
Hazeldell Road, N.E.; thence northeasterly along the center line of the
southwesterly
extension
of
Hazeldell Road, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Dundee
Drive, N.E.; thence northwesterly
along the prolongation of the center
line of Dundee Drive, N.E. to its
intersection with the dividing line
between the City of Cleveland and
the City of Bratenahl; thence northeasterly along the dividing line
between the City of Cleveland and
the City of Bratenahl to the place of
beginning.
Section 103.10 Ward Ten
The boundaries of Ward 10 shall
be as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of Lake Shore Boulevard, N.E. and the dividing line
between the City of Cleveland and
the City of Bratenahl; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Lake Shore Boulevard, N.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 149th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of East 149th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Ridpath Avenue, N.E.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Ridpath Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
152nd Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East 152nd Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Saranac Road, N.E.; thence
northeasterly along the center line
of Saranac Road, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
154th Place; thence southerly along
the center line of East 154th Place
to its intersection with the center
line of Holmes Avenue, N.E.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Holmes Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
156th Street; thence southerly and
southeasterly along the center line
of East 156th Street to its intersection with the center line of St. Clair
Avenue, N.E.; thence southwesterly
along the center line of St. Clair
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Nathaniel Road,
N.E.; thence southeasterly along the
center line of Nathaniel Road, N.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of Yorick Avenue, N.E.; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of Yorick Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Ivanhoe Road, N.E.; thence southeasterly along the center line of Ivanhoe
Road, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Mandalay Avenue,
N.E.; thence northeasterly along the
center line of Mandalay Avenue,
N.E. to its intersection with the center line of London Road, N.E.; thence
southeasterly along the center line
of London Road, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the NS Railroad;
thence northeasterly along the center line of the main line tracks of
the NS Railroad to its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Euclid; thence southeasterly, easterly
and
generally
southeasterly
along the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Euclid to its intersection with the
dividing line between the City of

The City Record
Cleveland and the City of South
Euclid; thence westerly, northwesterly and southerly to its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Cleveland Heights; thence westerly
along the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Cleveland Heights to its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
East Cleveland; thence westerly,
northerly, northwesterly, southwesterly, westerly and southerly along
the dividing line between the City
of Cleveland and the City of East
Cleveland to its intersection with
the easterly prolongation of the center line of Brackland Avenue, N.E.;
thence westerly along the prolongation and the center line of Brackland Avenue, N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 124th
Street; thence northerly along the
center line of East 124th Street to
its intersection with the center line
of St. Clair Avenue, N.E.; thence
westerly along the center line of St.
Clair Avenue, N.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Eddy Road,
N.E.; thence northerly and northwesterly along the center line of
Eddy Road, N.E. to its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Bratenahl; thence northerly, northeasterly, southeasterly, northeasterly and northerly along the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and the City of Bratenahl to the
place of beginning.
Section 103.11 Ward Eleven
The boundaries of Ward 11 shall
be as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of Lake Shore Boulevard, N.E. and the dividing line
between the City of Cleveland and
the City of Bratenahl; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Lake Shore Boulevard, N.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 149th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of East 149th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Ridpath Avenue, N.E.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Ridpath Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
l52nd Street; thence southerly along
the center line of East l52nd Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Saranac Road, N.E.; thence
northeasterly along the center line
of Saranac Road, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
154th Place; thence southerly along
the center line of East l54th Place
to its intersection with the center
line of Holmes Avenue, N.E.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Holmes Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
156th Street; thence southerly and
southeasterly along the center line
of East 156th Street to its intersection with the center line of St. Clair
Avenue, N.E.; thence southwesterly
along the center line of St. Clair
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Nathaniel Road,
N.E.; thence southeasterly along the
center line of Nathaniel Road, N.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of Yorick Avenue, N.E.; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of Yorick Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Ivanhoe Road, N.E.; thence southeasterly along the center line of Ivanhoe
Road, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Mandalay Avenue,
N.E. ; thence northeasterly along the
center line of Mandalay Avenue,

1425

123
N.E. to its intersection with the center line of London Road, N.E.; thence
southeasterly along the center line
of London Road, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the NS Railroad;
thence northeasterly along the center line of the main line tracks of
the NS Railroad to its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Euclid; thence northwesterly, northeasterly,
westerly,
northwesterly,
northerly, northeasterly, northerly,
northwesterly, westerly and northerly to its intersection with the shore
line of Lake Erie; thence in a general southwesterly direction along
the irregular shore line of Lake Erie
to its intersection with the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and the City of Bratenahl; thence
southeasterly along the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and the City of Bratenahl to the
place of beginning.
Section 103.12 Ward Twelve
The boundaries of Ward 12 shall
be as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of Warner Road, S.E.
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Garfield Heights; thence northeasterly along the center line of Warner Road, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Beman Avenue, S.
E: thence westerly along the center
line of Beman Avenue, S.E. and its
westerly prolongation to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the CSX Railroad; thence northeasterly along the
center line of the main line tracks
of the CSX Railroad to its intersection with the southerly prolongation
of the center line of East 80th
Street; thence northerly along the
southerly prolongation and the center line of East 80th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Finney Avenue, S. E: thence westerly along the center line of Finney
Avenue, S.E. and its westerly prolongation to its intersection with the
center line of the main line tracks
of the NS Railroad; thence northeasterly along the center line of the
main line tracks of the NS Railroad
to its intersection with the center
line of Broadway, S.E.: thence northwesterly along the center line of
Broadway, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Wire Avenue,
S.E.; thence easterly along the center line of Wire Avenue, S.E. and its
easterly prolongation to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the W & LE
Railroad;
thence
northerly
and
northwesterly along the center line
of the main line tracks of the W &
LE Railroad to its intersection with
the center line of East 78th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 78th Street to its intersection with the center line of Union
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the center line of Union Avenue, S.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of the main line tracks of the
NS Railroad; thence northerly and
northwesterly along the center line
of the main line tracks of the NS
Railroad to its intersection with the
center line of East 79th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 79th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Bessemer Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly and northwesterly along the
center line of Bessemer Avenue, S.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 66th Street; thence

124
northerly along the center line of
East 66th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Hoppensack
Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly along
the
center
line
of
Hoppensack
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 68th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 68th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Rogers Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly along the center line of Rogers
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 67th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 67th Street to its intersection with the center line of Lederer Avenue, S.E.; thence westerly
along the center line of Lederer
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 65th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 65th Street to its intersection with the center line of Newman Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Newman
Avenue, S.E. and its easterly prolongation to its intersection with the
northeasterly line of Parcel 3 of
land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by deed recorded in Volume
8419, Page 323 of Cuyahoga County
Records; thence northwesterly and
northerly along the curved northeasterly line of said Parcel 3 of land
so conveyed to the City of Cleveland
and the easterly line of a parcel of
land conveyed to the City of Cleveland by deed recorded in Volume
6867, Page 318 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and the northwesterly prolongation of the curved northeasterly line of land so conveyed to the
City of Cleveland to its intersection
with the center line of Sidaway
Avenue,
S.E.
(proposed);
thence
along a direct line parallel with the
center line of Kinsman Road, S.E. to
its intersection with the center line
of the main line tracks of the NS
Railroad;
thence
southwesterly
along the center line of the main
line tracks of the NS Railroad to its
intersection with the center line of
East 55th Street; thence southerly
and southwesterly along the center
line of East 55th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Hamm Avenue, S.E.: thence westerly along the center line of Hamm
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 52nd Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of East 52nd Street to its intersection with the center line of Guy
Avenue,
S.E.; thence westerly
along the center line of Guy Avenue,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East 49th Street; thence
southerly along the center line of
East 49th Street to its intersection
with the center line of the Morgana
Avenue, S.E. sewer; thence northwesterly along the center line of the
Morgana Avenue, S.E. sewer to its
intersection with the center line of
Interstate 77; thence southerly along
the center line of Interstate 77 to its
intersection with Chard Avenue,
S.E.; thence westerly along the center line of Chard Avenue, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 47th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of East 47th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Independence Road,
S.E.: thence northwesterly along the
center line of Independence Road,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Beyerle Place, S.E.;
thence southwesterly along the center line of Beyerle Place, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
Beyerle Road, S.E.; thence northwesterly along the center line of

The City Record
Beyerle Road, S.E.; to its intersection with the center line of Reeves
Road, S.E. (now vacated); thence
northeasterly along the center line
of Reeves Road, S.E. (now vacated)
to its intersection with the southeasterly prolongation of the southwesterly line of sublot number 51 in
Caroline Beyerle’s Subdivision of
part of Original 100 Acre Lot Numbers 286 and 287 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 12 of Maps,
Page
44
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence northwesterly along
the southeasterly prolongation and
the southwesterly line of sublot
numbers 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, and 57
to the most westerly corner of
sublot number 57; thence northeasterly along the northwesterly line of
sublot number 57 and its northeasterly prolongation to its intersection
with the center line of Independence
Road, S.E.; thence northwesterly
along the center line of Independence Road, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Campbell
Road, S.E.; thence westerly, southwesterly and westerly along the center line of Campbell Road, S.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
the main line tracks of the NS Railroad; thence southerly and southeasterly along the center line of the
main line tracks of the NS Railroad
to its intersection with the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and
the
Village
of
Cuyahoga
Heights; thence easterly along the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the Village of Cuyahoga Heights to its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the Village of
Newburgh Heights; thence easterly,
southerly, easterly, southerly, southeasterly,
easterly
and
southerly
along the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the Village of
Newburgh Heights, to its intersection with the dividing line between
the City of Cleveland and the City
of Garfield Heights; thence southerly,
easterly,
southerly,
easterly,
northeasterly, easterly, northeasterly, westerly, northwesterly, easterly,
southerly and easterly along the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the City of Garfield
Heights to the place of beginning.
Section 103.13 Ward Thirteen
The boundaries of Ward 13 shall
be as follows:
Beginning in the center line of the
Cuyahoga River at its entrance to
Lake
Erie;
thence
southeasterly
along the center line of the Cuyahoga River to its intersection with
the center line of the Old Riverbed
and Ship Channel; thence southwesterly,
westerly,
southwesterly
and westerly along the Old Riverbed
and Ship Channel to its intersection
with the center line of the northerly prolongation of the center line of
West 45th Street; thence southerly
along the northerly prolongation
and the center line of West 45th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Franklin Boulevard,
N. W,; thence southwesterly along
the center line of Franklin Boulevard, N.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 47th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 47th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Wales Court, N.W.; thence easterly
along the center line of Wales
Court, N.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 46th Place;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 46th Place to its intersection with the center line of Tay-

1426

June 20, 2001
lor Court, N.W.; thence westerly
along the center line of Taylor
Court, N.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 47th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 47th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Lorain Avenue; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Lorain
Avenue to its intersection with the
center line of West 25th Street;
thence northwesterly along the center line of West 25th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Bridge Avenue, N.W.; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Bridge Avenue, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
22nd Street; thence southeasterly
along the center line of West 22nd
Street and its prolongation to its
intersection with the center line of
the RTA main line tracks; thence
northerly along the center line of
the RTA main line tracks and
bridge to its intersection with the
center line of Franklin Avenue,
N.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Franklin Avenue, N.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Columbus Road, N.W.; thence
northerly along the center line of
Columbus Road, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of
Riverbed Street, N.W.; thence northwesterly along the center line of
Riverbed Street, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of the
RTA bridge; thence northerly along
the center line of the RTA bridge to
its intersection with the center line
of the Cuyahoga River; thence along
the meandering center line of the
Cuyahoga River easterly, northeasterly, northwesterly, easterly, southeasterly and southwesterly to its
intersection with the center line of
the Hope Memorial Bridge; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of the Hope Memorial Bridge to its
intersection with the northeasterly
right of way line of the former Erie
Railroad;
thence
northwesterly
along the northeasterly line of the
right of way of the former Erie
Railroad to its intersection with the
northeasterly prolongation line of
the center line of West 19th Street
(now vacated); thence southwesterly along the prolongation and the
center line of West 19th Street (now
vacated) to its intersection with the
center line of the Hope Memorial
Bridge; thence southwesterly along
the center line of the Hope Memorial Bridge and the center line of
Lorain Avenue to its intersection
with the center line of West 21st
Place; thence southerly along the
center line of West 21st Place to its
intersection with the center line of
Abbey Avenue, S.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Abbey
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
West 20th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 20th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Freeman Avenue,
S.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Freeman Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 19th Street; thence southerly, westerly and southerly along the
center line of West 19th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Willey Avenue, S.W.; thence southeasterly and easterly along the center line of Willey Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Scranton Road, S.W.; thence continuing easterly along the center
line of Kenilworth Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Interstate 71; thence southwesterly, southeasterly and southwester-

June 20, 2001
ly along the center line of Interstate
71 to its intersection with the center line of Jennings Road, S.W.;
thence in a general southeasterly
and southerly direction along the
center line of Jennings Road, S.W.
to its intersection with the center
line of Belt Line Street, S.W.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Belt Line Street to its intersection
with the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS Railroad; thence
northeasterly along the center line
of the main line tracks of the NS
Railroad to its intersection with the
center line of the Cuyahoga River;
thence along the meandering center
line of the Cuyahoga River in a
northerly and northeasterly direction to its intersection with the center line of the main line tracks of
the NS Railroad, thence southerly
along the center line of the main
line tracks of the NS Railroad to its
intersection with the center line of
Campbell Road, S.E.; thence easterly, northeasterly and easterly along
the center line of Campbell Road,
S.E. to its intersection with the center line of Independence Road, S.E.;
thence southeasterly along the center line of Independence Road, S.E.
to its intersection with the northeasterly prolongation of the northwesterly line of sublot number 57 in
the Caroline Beyerle’s Subdivision of
part of Original 100 Acre Lot Number 286 and 287 as shown by the
recorded plat in Volume 12 of Maps,
Page
44
of
Cuyahoga
County
Records; thence southwesterly along
the northeasterly prolongation and
the northwesterly line of sublot
number 57 to the most westerly corner of sublot number 57; thence
southeasterly along the southwesterly line of sublot numbers 57, 56,
55, 54, 53, 52, 51 and its southeasterly prolongation to its intersection
with the center line of Reeves Road,
S.E. (now vacated); thence southwesterly along the center line of
Reeves Road, S.E. (now vacated) to
its intersection with the center line
of Beyerle Road, S.E.; thence southeasterly along the center line of
Beyerle Road, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of Beyerle
Place, S.E.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Beyerle
Place, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Independence
Road,
S.E.;
thence
southeasterly
along the center line of Independence Road, S.E. to its intersection
with the center line of East 47th
Street; thence northerly along the
center line of East 47th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Chard Avenue, S.E.; thence easterly
along the center line of Chard
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Interstate 77;
thence northerly along the center
line of Interstate 77 to its intersection with the center line of the Morgana Avenue, S.E. sewer; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of the Morgana Avenue, S.E. sewer
to its intersection with the center
line of the Cuyahoga River; thence
northwesterly, westerly and southwesterly along the meandering center line of the Cuyahoga River to its
intersection with the center line of
West 3rd Street; thence northwesterly along the center line of West
3rd Street to its intersection with
the center line of the Hope Memorial
Bridge;
thence
northeasterly
along the center line of the Hope
Memorial Bridge and the center line
of Carnegie Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
9th Street; thence southerly along

The City Record
the center line of East 9th Street to
its intersection with the northwesterly right of way line of the Inner
Belt Freeway; thence northeasterly
along the northwesterly right of
way line of the Inner Belt Freeway
to its intersection with the center
line of East 13th Street; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of East 13th Street to its intersection with the center line of Carnegie
Avenue, S.E.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Carnegie
Avenue, S.E. to its intersection with
the center line of East 14th Street;
thence northwesterly along the center line of East 14th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Huntington Court, S.E. (now vacated); thence northeasterly along the
center line of Huntington Court, S.E.
to its intersection with the center
line of East 18th Street; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of East 18th Street to its intersection with the center line of Euclid
Avenue; thence northeasterly along
the center line of Euclid Avenue to
its intersection with the center line
of the Inner Belt Freeway; thence
northerly along the center line of
the Inner Belt Freeway to its intersection with the center line of
Chester Avenue, S.E.; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Chester Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
40th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of East 40th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Payne Avenue, N. E,; thence
northeasterly along the center line
of Payne Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
45th Street; thence northwesterly
along the center line of East 45th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Superior Avenue, N.E.;
thence northeasterly and easterly
along the center line of Superior
Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Norwood Road,
N.E.; thence northerly along the center line of Norwood Road, N.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
Bonna Avenue, N.E.; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Bonna Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of Addison
Road, N.E..; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Addison
Road, N.E. to its intersection with
the center line of Bliss Avenue, N.E.;
thence northeasterly along the center line of Bliss Avenue, N.E. to its
intersection with the center line of
East 66th Street; thence southeasterly along the center line of East
66th Street to its intersection with
the center line of Bliss Avenue, N.E.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Bliss Avenue, N.E. to its intersection with the center line of East
68th Street; thence northwesterly
along the center line of East 68th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of St. Clair Avenue, N.E.;
thence southwesterly along the center line of St. Clair Avenue, N.E. to
its intersection with the center line
of
Addison
Road,
N.E.;
thence
northerly along the center line of
Addison Road, N.E. and its northerly prolongation to its intersection
with the center line of the main line
tracks of the CSX Railroad; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of the main line tracks of the CSX
Railroad to its intersection with the
center line of East 55th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of East 55th Street and its
northerly prolongation to its intersection with the shore line of Lake
Erie; thence in a general south-

1427

125
westerly direction along the irregular shore line of Lake Erie to its
intersection with the entrance to the
Cuyahoga River and the place of
beginning.
Section 103.14 Ward Fourteen
The boundaries of Ward 14 shall
be as follows;
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of Lorain Avenue
and the center line of West 48th
Street; thence northeasterly along
the center line of Lorain Avenue to
its intersection with the center line
of West 25th Street; thence northwesterly along the center line of
West 25th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Bridge
Avenue, N.W.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Bridge
Avenue, N.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 22nd Street;
thence southeasterly along the center line of West 22nd Street and its
prolongation to its intersection with
the center line of the RTA main line
tracks; thence northerly along the
center line of the RTA main line
tracks and bridge to its intersection
with the center line of Franklin
Avenue, N.W.; thence easterly along
the center line of Franklin Avenue,
N.W. to its intersection with the center line of Columbus Road, N.W.;
thence northerly along the center
line of Columbus Road, N.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
Riverbed Street, N.W.; thence northwesterly along the center line of
Riverbed Street, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of the
RTA bridge; thence northerly along
the center line of the RTA bridge to
its intersection with the center line
of the Cuyahoga River; thence along
the meandering center line of the
Cuyahoga River easterly, northeasterly, northwesterly, easterly, southeasterly and southwesterly to its
intersection with the center line of
the Hope Memorial Bridge; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of the Hope Memorial Bridge to its
intersection with the northeasterly
right of way line of the former Erie
Railroad;
thence
northwesterly
along the northeasterly line of the
right of way of the former Erie
Railroad to its intersection with the
northeasterly prolongation line of
the center line of West 19th Street
(now vacated); thence southwesterly along the prolongation and the
center line of West 19th Street (now
vacated) to its intersection with the
center line of the Hope Memorial
Bridge; thence southwesterly along
the center line of the Hope Memorial Bridge and the center line of
Lorain Avenue to its intersection
with the center line of West 21st
Place; thence southerly along the
center line of West 21st Place to its
intersection with the center line of
Abbey Avenue, S.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Abbey
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
West 20th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 20th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Freeman Avenue,
S.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Freeman Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 19th Street; thence southerly, westerly and southerly along the
center line of West 19th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Willey Avenue, S.W.; thence southeasterly and easterly along the center line of Willey Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Scranton Road, S.W.; thence continuing easterly along the center

126
line of Kenilworth Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Interstate 71; thence southwesterly, southeasterly and southwesterly along the center line of Interstate
71 to its intersection with the center line of West 25th Street; thence
northeasterly along the center line
of West 25th Street to its intersection with the center line of Scranton
Road, S.W.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Scranton
Road, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of Ketteringham
Road, S.W. formerly known as View
Road, S.W. (now vacated); thence
easterly, northeasterly and northerly along the center line of Ketteringham Road, S.W. (now vacated) to
its intersection with the center line
of South Point Drive, S.W.; thence
westerly, southwesterly and westerly along the center line of South
Point Drive, S.W. to its intersection
with the center line of West 25th
Street; thence northerly along the
center line of West 25th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Woodbridge Avenue, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Woodbridge Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 35th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 35th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Tyler Court, S.W.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Tyler Court, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
32nd Street; thence southerly along
the center line of West 32nd Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Library Avenue, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Library Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
35th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 35th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Library Court, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Library Court, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
39th Place; thence southerly along
the center line of West 39th Place
to its intersection with the center
line of Bush Avenue, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Bush Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
41st Street; thence southerly along
the center line of West 41st Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Fulton Road, S.W.; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of Fulton Road, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Poe
Avenue, S.W.; thence northwesterly
along the center line of Poe Avenue,
S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West 44th Place; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of West 44th Place to its intersection with Hodgson Avenue, S.W.;
thence northwesterly along the center line of Hodgson Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 44th Street; thence northerly along the center line of West 44th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Bush Avenue, S.W.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Bush Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 46th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 46th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Carlos Avenue, S.W.;
thence northwesterly along the center line of Carlos Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 52nd Street; thence northeasterly along the center line of West
52nd Street to its intersection with
the center line of Storer Avenue,

The City Record
S.W.; thence westerly along the center line of Storer Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 53rd Street; thence northerly
along the center line of West 53rd
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Field Avenue, S.W.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Field Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
52nd Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 52nd Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Clark Avenue, S.W.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Clark Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
51st Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 51st Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Train Avenue, S.W.; thence
easterly along the center line of
Train Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
44th Street; thence in a general
northerly direction along the center
line of West 44th Street to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the NS Railroad;
thence westerly along the center
line of the main line tracks of the
NS Railroad to its intersection with
the southerly prolongation of West
48th Street; thence northerly along
the southerly prolongation and the
center line of West 48th Street to
the place of beginning.
Section 103.15 Ward Fifteen
The boundaries of Ward 15 shall
be as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of West 25th Street
with the center line of Interstate 71;
thence northeasterly along the center line of West 25th Street to its
intersection with the center line of
Scranton Road, S.W.; thence northeasterly along the center line of
Scranton Road, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Ketteringham Road, S.W. formerly known
as View Road, S.W. (now vacated);
thence easterly, northeasterly and
northerly along the center line of
Ketteringham
Road,
S.W.
(now
vacated) to its intersection with the
center line of South Point Drive,
S.W.; thence westerly, southwesterly
and westerly along the center line
of South Point, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
25th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 25th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Woodbridge Avenue, S.W.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Woodbridge Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 35th Street; thence southerly along the center line of West 35th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Tyler Court, S.W.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Tyler Court, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
32nd Street; thence southerly along
the center line of West 32nd Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Library Avenue, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Library Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
35th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 35th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Library Court, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Library Court, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
39th Place; thence southerly along
the center line of West 39 Place to
its intersection with the center line
of Bush Avenue, S.W.; thence westerly along the center line of Bush

1428

June 20, 2001
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 41st Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 41st Street to its intersection with the center line of Fulton Road, S.W.; thence southwesterly along the center line of Fulton
Road, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of Poe Avenue, S.W.;
thence northwesterly along the center line of Poe Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 44th Place; thence southwesterly along the center line of West
44th Place to its intersection with
Hodgson Avenue, S.W.; thence northwesterly along the center line of
Hodgson Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
44th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 44th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Bush Avenue, S.W.; thence
westerly along the center line of
Bush Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
46th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of West 46th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Carlos Avenue, S.W.; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of Carlos Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
47th Street; thence southwesterly
along the center line of West 47th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Denison Avenue, S.W.;
thence southeasterly along the center line of Denison Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Fulton Road, S.W.; thence southwesterly along the center line of
Fulton Road, S.W. to its intersection
with the center line of Park Drive,
S.W.; thence southwesterly along the
center line of Park Drive, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 56th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 56th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Ridgeview Road, S.W.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Ridgeview Road, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 57th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 57th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Memphis Avenue,
S.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Memphis Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 37th Street; thence southerly along the center line of West 37th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Stanford Avenue, S.W.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Stanford Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Pearl
Road, S.W.; thence southwesterly
along the center line of Pearl Road,
S.W. to its intersection with the center line of State Road, S.W; thence
southerly along the centerline of
State Road, S.W. to its intersection
with the centerline of Searsdale
Avenue, S.W.; thence easterly and
northeasterly along the center line
of Searsdale Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 23rd Street; thence southeasterly along the center line of West
23rd Street to its intersection with
the center line of Roanoke Avenue,
S.W.; thence easterly and northeasterly
along
the
center
line
of
Roanoke Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of
Broadview Road, S.W.; thence southeasterly and southerly along the
center line of Broadview Road, S.W.
to its intersection with the center
line of West Schaaf Road, S.W.;
thence southeasterly along the center line of West Schaaf Road, S.W.
to its intersection with the dividing

June 20, 2001
line between the City of Cleveland
and
the
Village
of
Brooklyn
Heights;
thence
northeasterly,
northerly and easterly along the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the Village of Brooklyn Heights to its intersection with
the Cuyahoga River; thence in a
general
northwesterly
direction
along the meandering center line of
the Cuyahoga River also being the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the Village of Cuyahoga Heights to its intersection
with the center line of Harvard
Avenue,
S.W.;
thence
continuing
along the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the Village of
Cuyahoga
Heights
northeasterly,
northwesterly, northerly and easterly to its intersection with the center
line of the main line tracks of the
NS Railroad; thence northerly along
the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS Railroad to its
intersection with the center line of
the Cuyahoga River; thence along
the meandering center line of the
Cuyahoga River in a southwesterly
and southerly direction to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the NS Railroad;
thence southwesterly along the center line of the main line tracks if
the N. S. Railroad to its intersection
with the center line of the Belt Line
Street, S.W.; thence westerly along
the center line of Belt Line Street,
S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Jennings Road, S.W.;
thence in a general northerly and
northwesterly direction along the
center line of Jennings Road, S.W.
to its intersection with the center
line of Interstate 71; thence southwesterly along the center line of
Interstate 71 to the place of beginning.
Section 103.16 Ward Sixteen
The boundaries of Ward 16 shall
be as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of West 47th Street
and Carlos Avenue, S. W; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of West 47th Street to its intersection with the center line of Denison
Avenue, S.W.; thence southeasterly
along the center line of Denison
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of Fulton Road, S.W.;
thence southwesterly along the center line of Fulton Road, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
Park Drive, S.W.; thence southwesterly along the center line of Park
Drive, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 56th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 56th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Ridgeview Road, S.W.; thence westerly
along
the
center
line
of
Ridgeview Road, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
57th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of West 57th Street
to its intersection with the center
line
of
Memphis
Avenue,
S.W.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Memphis Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 37th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 37th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Stanford Avenue, S.W.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Stanford Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Pearl
Road, S.W.; thence southwesterly
along the center line of Pearl Road,
S. W, to its intersection with the
centerline
of
State
Road,
S.W.;
thence southerly along the center-

The City Record
line of State Road, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Searsdale Avenue, S.W.; thence easterly
and northeasterly along the center
line of Searsdale Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 23rd Street; thence southeasterly along the center line of West
23rd Street to its intersection with
the center line of Roanoke Avenue,
S.W.; thence easterly and northeasterly
along
the
center
line
of
Roanoke Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of
Broadview Road, S.W.; thence southeasterly and southerly along the
center line of Broadview Road, S.W.
to its intersection with the center
line of West Schaaf Road, S.W.;
thence southeasterly along the center line of West Schaaf Road, S.W.
to its intersection with the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and
the
Village
of
Brooklyn
Heights; thence southeasterly and
southwesterly along the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and the Village of Brooklyn Heights
to its intersection with the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and the City of Parma; thence westerly along the dividing line between
the City of Cleveland and the City
of Parma to its intersection with the
center line of Ridge Road, S.W. and
the dividing line between the City
of Cleveland and the City of Brooklyn;
thence
northerly,
easterly,
northerly, westerly, northerly, westerly, northerly northeasterly, northwesterly,
southeasterly,
westerly
northeasterly, westerly, northerly,
easterly, northerly along the dividing line between the City of Cleveland and the City of Brooklyn to its
intersection with the center line of
the main line tracks of the NS, CSX
Railroad; thence northeasterly along
the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS, CSX Railroad to its
intersection with the center line of
Denison Avenue, S.W.; thence southeasterly along the center line of
Denison Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
52nd Street; thence northeasterly
along the center line of West 52nd
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Carlos Avenue, S.W.;
thence southeasterly along the center line of Carlos Avenue, S.W. to
the place of beginning.
Section 103.17 Ward Seventeen
The boundaries of Ward 17 shall
be as follows:
Beginning in the center line of the
Cuyahoga River at its entrance to
Lake
Erie;
thence
southeasterly
along the center line of the Cuyahoga River to its intersection with
the center line of the Old Riverbed
and Ship Channel; thence southwesterly,
westerly,
southwesterly
and westerly along the Old Riverbed
and Ship Channel to its intersection
with the center line of the northerly prolongation of the center line of
West 45th Street; thence southerly
along the northerly prolongation
and the center line of West 45th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Franklin Boulevard,
N.W.; thence southwesterly along
the center line of Franklin Boulevard, N.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 47th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 47th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Wales Court, N.W.; thence easterly
along the center line of Wales
Court, N.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 46th Place;
thence southerly along the center

1429

127
line of West 46th Place to its intersection with the center line of Taylor Court, N.W.; thence westerly
along the center line of Taylor
Court, N., W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 47th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 47th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Lorain Avenue; thence southwesterly along the center line of Lorain
Avenue to its intersection with the
center line of West 48th Street;
thence southerly along the center
line of West 48th Street and its
southerly prolongation to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the NS Railroad;
thence easterly along the center line
of the main line tracks of the NS
Railroad to its intersection with the
center line of West 44th Street;
thence in a general southerly direction along the center line of West
44th Street to its intersection with
the center line of Train Avenue,
S.W.; thence westerly along the center line of Train Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 51st Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 51st
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Clark Avenue, S. .W.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Clark Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 52nd Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 52nd
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Field Avenue, S.W.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Field Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 53rd Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 53rd
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Storer Avenue, S.W.;
thence easterly along the center line
of Storer Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
52nd Street; thence southwesterly
along the center line of West 52nd
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Denison Avenue, S.W.;
thence northwesterly along the center line of Denison Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 82nd Street; thence northerly along the center line of West
82nd Street to its intersection with
the
center
line
of
Brinsmade
Avenue, S.W.; thence westerly along
the
center
line
of
Brinsmade
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 83rd Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of West 83rd Street to its intersection with the center line of Emily
Avenue, S.W.; thence westerly along
the center line of Emily Avenue,
S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West 84th Street; thence
northerly and northwesterly along
the center line of West 84th Street
and the bridge joining West 84th
Street and West 85th Street over
Interstate 90 and northerly along
the center line of West 85th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Detroit Avenue, N.W.; thence
northeasterly along the center line
of Detroit Avenue, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
85th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 85th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Lake Avenue, N.W.; thence
northwesterly along the center line
of Lake Avenue, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the NS Railroad;
thence northeasterly along the center line of the main line tracks of
the NS Railroad to its intersection
with the northerly prolongation of

128
the center line of West 65th Street;
thence northerly along the northerly prolongation of the center line of
West 65th Street to its intersection
with the south curb line of the east
bound entrance ramp to the Cleveland
Memorial
Shoreway,
N.W.;
thence
southwesterly
along
the
south curb line of the east entrance
ramp to the Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway, N.W. to its intersection
with the southeasterly prolongation
of the center line of the main drive
of Edgewater Park; thence in a general northwesterly direction along
the center line of the main drive of
Edgewater Park and its northwesterly prolongation to the shore line
of Lake Erie; thence in a general
northeasterly direction along the
irregular shore line of Lake Erie to
its intersection with the entrance to
the Cuyahoga River and the place
of beginning.
Section 103.18 Ward Eighteen
The boundaries of Ward 18 shall
be as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS, CSX Railroad with
the dividing line between the City
of Cleveland and the City of Lakewood; thence northeasterly along
the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS, CSX Railroad to its
intersection with the southerly prolongation of the center line of West
112th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 112th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Franklin Boulevard, N.W.;
thence northeasterly along the center line of Franklin Boulevard, N.W.
to its intersection with the center
line of West 110th Street; thence
northeasterly along the center line
of West 110th Street to its intersection with the center line of the main
line tracks of the NS Railroad;
thence southeasterly along the center line of the main line tracks of
the NS Railroad to its intersection
with the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS, CSX Railroad;
thence northeasterly along the center line of the main line tracks of
the NS, CSX Railroad to its intersection with the center line of West
Boulevard, N.W.; thence northwesterly along the center line of West
Boulevard, N.W. to its intersection
with the center line of Baltic Road,
N.W.;
thence
southwesterly
and
northwesterly along the center line
of Baltic Road, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
102nd Street; thence northwesterly
along the center line of West 102nd
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Clifton Road, N.W.;
thence southeasterly along the center line of Clifton Road, N.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 95th Street; thence southeasterly and southerly along the center
line of West 95th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Detroit Avenue, N.W.; thence southwesterly along the center line of
Detroit Avenue, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
101st Street; thence southerly along
the center line of West 101st Street
to its intersection with the center
line
of
Madison
Avenue,
N.W.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Madison Avenue, N.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
Berea Road, N.W.; thence southwesterly along the center line of
Berea Road, N.W. to its intersection
with the center line of West 110th
Street; thence southerly along the
center line of West 110th Street to

The City Record
its intersection with the center line
of the former right of way of the
NYC
Railroad;
thence
easterly,
southeasterly and southerly along
the center line of the former right
of way of the NYC Railroad to its
intersection with the center line of
Western Avenue, N.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Western Avenue, N.W. to its intersection
with the center line of West 106th
Street; thence southerly along the
center line of West 106th Street to
its intersection with the center line
of Interstate 90; thence northeasterly along the center line of Interstate
90 to its intersection with the center line of West Boulevard, N.W.;
thence
southerly,
southeasterly,
southerly and southwesterly along
the center line of West Boulevard,
N.W. and S.W. and its southwesterly prolongation to its intersection
with the center line of the center
line of West 105th Street; thence
southerly and southwesterly along
the center line of West 105th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Bellaire Road, S.W.; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of Bellaire Road, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
107th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of West 107th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Dixon Road, S.W.; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of Dixon Road, S.W. to its intersection
with
the
center
line
of
Bosworth Road, S.W.; thence southeasterly along the center line of
Bosworth Road, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Briggs
Avenue, S.W.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Briggs
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 106th Street;
thence southerly along the southerly prolongation of the center line of
West 106th Street to its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Brooklyn; thence northeasterly and
southeasterly along the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and the City of Brooklyn to its intersection with the center line of the
main line tracks of the CSX, NS
Railroad; thence northeasterly along
the center line of the main line
tracks of the CSX, NS Railroad to its
intersection with the center line of
Denison Avenue, S.W.; thence northwesterly along the center line of
Denison Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
82nd Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 82nd Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Brinsmade Avenue, S.W.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Brinsmade Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 83rd Street; thence northerly along the center line of West 83rd
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Emily Avenue, S.W.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Emily Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 84th Street; thence northerly
and northwesterly along the center
line of West 84th Street and the
bridge joining West 84th Street and
West 85th Street over Interstate 90
and northerly along the center line
of West 85th Street to its intersection with the center line of Detroit
Avenue, N.W.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Detroit
Avenue, N.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 85th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of West 85th Street to its intersection with the center line of Lake

1430

June 20, 2001
Avenue, N.W.; thence northwesterly
along the center line of Lake
Avenue, N.W. to its intersection with
the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS Railroad; thence
northeasterly along the center line
of the main line tracks of the NS
Railroad to its intersection with the
northerly prolongation of the center
line of West 65th Street; thence
northerly along the northerly prolongation of the center line of West
65th Street to its intersection with
the south curb line of the east bound
entrance ramp to the Cleveland
Memorial Shoreway, N.W.; thence
southwesterly along the south curb
line of the east bound entrance
ramp to the Cleveland Memorial
Shoreway, N.W. to its intersection
with the southeasterly prolongation
of the center line of the main drive
of Edgewater Park; thence in a general northwesterly direction along
the center line of the main drive of
Edgewater Park and its northwesterly prolongation to the shore line
of Lake Erie; thence in a general
southwesterly
and
northeasterly
direction along the irregular shore
line of Lake Erie to its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Lakewood; thence southerly along
the dividing line between the City
of Cleveland and the City of Lakewood to the place of beginning.
Section 103.19 Ward Nineteen
The boundaries of Ward 19 shall
be as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS, CSX Railroad with
the dividing line between the City
of Cleveland and the City of Lakewood, thence northeasterly along
the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS, CSX Railroad to its
intersection with the southerly prolongation of the center line of West
112th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 112th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Franklin Boulevard, N.W.;
thence northeasterly along the center line of Franklin Boulevard, N.W.
to its intersection with the center
line of West 110th Street; thence
northeasterly along the center line
of West 110th Street to its intersection with the center line of the main
line tracks of the NS Railroad;
thence southeasterly along the center line of the main line tracks of
the NS Railroad to its intersection
with the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS, CSX Railroad;
thence northeasterly along the center line of the main line tracks of
the NS, CSX Railroad to its intersection with the center line of West
Boulevard, N.W.; thence northwesterly along the center line of West
Boulevard, N.W. to its intersection
with the center line of Baltic Road,
N.W.;
thence
southwesterly
and
northwesterly along the center line
of Baltic Road, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
102nd Street; thence northwesterly
along the center line of West 102nd
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Clifton Road, N.W.;
thence southeasterly along the center line of Clifton Road, N.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 95th Street; thence southeasterly and southerly along the center
line of West 95th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Detroit Avenue, N.W.; thence southwesterly along the center line of
Detroit Avenue, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of West

June 20, 2001
101st Street; thence southerly along
the center line of West 101st Street
to its intersection with the center
line
of
Madison
Avenue,
N.W.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Madison Avenue, N.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
Berea Road, N.W.; thence southwesterly along the center line of
Berea Road, N.W. to its intersection
with the center line of West 110th
Street; thence southerly along the
center line of West 110th Street to
its intersection with the center line
of the former right of way of the
NYC
Railroad;
thence
easterly,
southeasterly and southerly along
the center line of the former right
of way of the NYC Railroad to its
intersection with the center line of
Western Avenue, N.W.; thence easterly along the center line of Western Avenue, N.W. to its intersection
with the center line of West 106th
Street; thence southerly along the
center line of West 106th Street to
its intersection with the center line
of Interstate 90; thence northeasterly along the center line of Interstate
90 to its intersection with the center line of West Boulevard, N.W.;
thence
southerly,
southeasterly,
southerly and southwesterly along
the center line of West Boulevard,
N.W. and S.W. and its southwesterly prolongation to its intersection
with the center line of the center
line of West 105th Street; thence
southerly and southwesterly along
the center line of West 105th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Bellaire Road, S.W.; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of Bellaire Road, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of West
107th Street; thence southerly along
the center line of West 107th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Dixon Road, S.W.; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of Dixon Road, S.W. to its intersection
with
the
center
line
of
Bosworth Road, S.W.; thence southeasterly along the center line of
Bosworth Road, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Briggs
Avenue, S.W.; thence northeasterly
along the center line of Briggs
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 106th Street;
thence southerly along the southerly prolongation of the center line of
West 106th Street to its intersection
with the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Brooklyn;
thence
southwesterly
along the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Brooklyn to its intersection with the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the Village of Linndale; thence northeasterly, northwesterly, southwesterly and southerly along the dividing line between
the City of Cleveland and the Village of Linndale to its intersection
with the center line of the main line
tracks of the NS, CSX Railroad;
thence southwesterly along the center line of the main line tracks of
the NS, CSX Railroad to its intersection with the center line of West
130th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 130th Street
to its intersection with the center
line of Bellaire Road, S.W.; thence
westerly and southwesterly along
the center line of Bellaire Road,
S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Sherry Avenue, S.W.;
thence northwesterly along the center line of Sherry Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 134th Street; thence northerly along the center line of West

The City Record
134th Street to its intersection with
the center line of Liberty Avenue,
S.W. ; thence easterly along the center line of Liberty Avenue, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of West 130th Street; thence northerly along the center line of West
130th Street to its intersection with
the center line of Lorain Avenue;
thence southwesterly along the center line of Lorain Avenue to its
intersection with the center line of
Berea Road, N.W.; thence northwesterly, northerly and northeasterly along the center line of Berea
Road, N.W. to its intersection with
the center line of Interstate 90;
thence northwesterly along the center line of Interstate 90 to its intersection with the center line of West
140th Street; thence northerly along
the center line of West 140th Street
to its intersection with the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and the City of Lakewood; thence
easterly, southeasterly, northeasterly and northerly along the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and the City of Lakewood to the
place of beginning.
Section 103.20 Ward Twenty
The boundaries of Ward 20 shall
be as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of Warren Road,
N.W. and the dividing line between
the City of Cleveland and the City
of Lakewood; thence southeasterly
and southwesterly along the center
line of Warren Road, N.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
Grapeland
Avenue,
N.W.;
thence
easterly and southeasterly along the
center line of Grapeland Avenue,
N.W. to its intersection with the center line of Triskett Road, N.W.;
thence northeasterly along the center line of Triskett Road, N.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 140th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 140th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Emery Avenue, S.W.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Emery Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 150th Street; thence northerly
along the center line of West 150th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of the main line tracks
of the NS, CSX Railroad; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of the main line tracks of the NS,
CSX Railroad to its intersection
with the center line of Puritas
Avenue, S.W.; thence westerly along
the center line of Puritas Avenue,
S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Rocky River Drive, S.W.;
thence southwesterly along the center line of Rocky River Drive, S.W.
to its intersection with the center
line of Homeway Avenue, S.W.;
thence westerly, northwesterly and
northerly along the center line of
Homeway Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Parkmount Avenue, S.W.; thence westerly and northwesterly along the center line of Parkmount Avenue, S.W.
to its intersection with the center
line of Grayton Road, S.W.; thence
northeasterly along the center line
of Grayton Road, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Puritas Avenue, S.W.; thence westerly,
northwesterly, northerly, northwesterly and westerly along the center
line of Puritas Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the original center
line of the Rocky River; thence
along the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the City of
Fairview
Park
southeasterly,

1431

129
southerly, southwesterly, westerly,
southerly, westerly, southerly, southwesterly, southeasterly, southwesterly,
easterly,
northeasterly
and
southerly to its intersection with the
original center line of Brookpark
Road, S.W.; thence continuing along
the dividing line between the City
of
Cleveland
and
the
City
of
Fairview Park along the original
center line of Brookpark Road, S.W.
and the northerly line of Lot Number 6, Section 20 and Lot Number 1,
Section 21 (both Original Middleburgh Township Lots) to the northwesterly corner of Lot Number 1,
Section 21; thence southerly along
the westerly line of Lot Numbers 1
and 2, Section 21 (both Original Middleburgh Township Lots) to its
intersection with the dividing line
between the City of Cleveland and
the City of Brook Park as agreed to
by Ordinance Number 317-97, passed
by the Council of the City of Cleveland, June 6, 1997; thence along the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the City of Brook
Park southwesterly, southeasterly,
southerly, southwesterly, southerly,
southeasterly, northeasterly, easterly, northeasterly, easterly, southerly,
easterly,
southerly,
easterly,
southerly, easterly, northerly, easterly, southerly, southeasterly, easterly, northeasterly (along the existing northwesterly right of way line
of the Berea Freeway, State Route
237), southeasterly, northeasterly,
northerly,
northwesterly
and
northerly to the original center line
of Brookpark Road, S.W.; thence
continuing along the dividing line
between the City of Cleveland and
the City of Brook Park, easterly,
northeasterly (along the center line
of the East Bound High Speed
Track of the NS Railroad), easterly
(along the irregular southerly Limited Access Line of Interstate 480)
and southeasterly to its intersection
with the center line of West 130th
Street (as relocated); thence southwesterly along the center line of
West 130th Street (as relocated) to
its intersection with the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and the City of Parma; thence easterly along the dividing line between
the City of Cleveland and the City
of Parma to its intersection with the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the City of Brooklyn;
thence northerly along the dividing
line between the City of Cleveland
and the City of Brooklyn to its
intersection with the center line of
the main line tracks of the NS, CSX
Railroad;
thence
southwesterly
along the center line of the main
line tracks of the NS, CSX Railroad
to its intersection with the center
line of West 130th Street; thence
northerly along the center line of
West 130th Street to its intersection
with the center line of Bellaire
Road, S.W.; thence westerly and
southwesterly along the center line
of Bellaire Road, S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Sherry Avenue, S.W.; thence northwesterly along the center line of Sherry
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 134th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of West 134th Street to its intersection with the center line of Liberty Avenue, S.W.; thence easterly
along the center line of Liberty
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of West 130th Street;
thence northerly along the center
line of West 130th Street to its intersection with the center line of
Lorain Avenue; thence southwester-

130
ly along the center line of Lorain
Avenue to its intersection with the
center line of Berea Road, N.W.;
thence northwesterly, northerly and
northeasterly along the center line
of Berea Road, N.W. to its intersection with the center line of Interstate 90; thence northwesterly along
the center line of Interstate 90 to its
intersection with the center line of
West 140th Street; thence northerly
along the center line of West 140th
Street to its intersection with the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the City of Lakewood; thence in a general westerly
direction along the dividing line
between the City of Cleveland and
the City of Lakewood to the place
of beginning.
Section 103.21 Ward Twenty-One
The boundaries of Ward 21 shall
be as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of
the center line of Warren Road,
N.W. and the dividing line between
the City of Cleveland and the City
of Lakewood; thence southeasterly
and southwesterly along the center
line of Warren Road, N.W. to its
intersection with the center line
Grapeland
Avenue,
N.W.;
thence
easterly and southeasterly along the
center line of Grapeland Avenue,
N.W. to its intersection with the center line of Triskett Road, N.W.;
thence northeasterly along the center line of Triskett Road, N.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 140th Street; thence southerly
along the center line of West 140th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of Emery Avenue, S.W.;
thence westerly along the center
line of Emery Avenue, S.W. to its
intersection with the center line of
West 150th Street; thence northerly
along the center line of West 150th
Street to its intersection with the
center line of the main line tracks
of the NS, CSX Railroad; thence
southwesterly along the center line
of the main line tracks of the NS,
CSX Railroad to its intersection
with the center line of Puritas
Avenue, S.W.; thence westerly along
the center line of Puritas Avenue,
S.W. to its intersection with the center line of Rocky River Drive, S.W.;
thence southwesterly along the center line of Rocky River Drive, S.W.
to its intersection with the center
line of Homeway Avenue, S.W.;
thence westerly and northwesterly
along the center line of Homeway
Avenue,
S.W. to its intersection
with the center line of Parkmount
Avenue,
S.W.;
thence
westerly,
northwesterly and northerly along
the
center
line
of
Parkmount
Avenue, S.W. to its intersection with
the center line of Grayton Road,
S.W.; thence northeasterly along the
center line of Grayton Road, S.W. to
its intersection with the center line
of Puritas Avenue, S.W.; thence
westerly, northwesterly, northerly,
northwesterly and westerly along
the center line of Puritas Avenue,
S.W. to its intersection with the
original center line of the Rocky
River; thence in a general northerly
direction along the original center
line of the Rocky River which is
also the dividing line between the
City of Cleveland and the Cities of
Fairview Park, Rocky River and
Lakewood to the center line of
Riverside Drive, N.W. extended in a
westerly direction; thence easterly
along said westerly extension and
the center line of Riverside Drive,
N.W. to the center line of Rocky
River Drive, N.W.; thence southeast-

The City Record
erly along the center line of Rocky
River Drive, N.W. to the center line
of Fischer Road, N.W. which is also
the dividing line between the City
of Cleveland and the City of Lakewood; thence northeasterly, easterly,
northerly and easterly along the
dividing line between the City of
Cleveland and the City of Lakewood
to the place of beginning.
Section 3. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 1178-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located at 3182 West 99th Street
to Mathile Saad.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 017-01-056,
as more fully described below, to
Mathile Saad.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. No. 017-01-056
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being a South
parts of Sublot Nos. 4 and 5 in the
A.L. Weitz Subdivision of part of
Original Brooklyn Township Lot No.
14 as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 23 of Maps, Page 21 of Cuyahoga County Records, forming a parcel of land having a frontage of 39
feet on the Westerly side of West
99th Street (45 feet wide), and
extending back of equal width of
73.24 feet deep, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Section 3.
That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of

1432

June 20, 2001
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

Ord. No. 1179-01.
By Councilman Westbrook.
An emergency ordinance authorizing the sale of real property as part
of the Land Reutilization Program
and located on Clark Avenue to Cudell Improvement, Inc.
Whereas, the City of Cleveland
has elected to adopt and implement
the procedures under Chapter 5722
of the Ohio Revised Code to facilitate reutilization of nonproductive
lands situated within the City of
Cleveland; and
Whereas, real property acquired
under the City’s Land Reutilization
Program is acquired, held, administered and disposed by the City of
Cleveland through its Department of
Community Development under the
terms of Chapter 5722 of the Ohio
Revised Code and Section 183.021 of
Codified Ordinances of the City of
Cleveland, 1976; and
Whereas, this ordinance constitutes an emergency measure providing for the usual daily operation of
a municipal department; now, therefore
Be it ordained by the Council of
the City of Cleveland:
Section 1. That pursuant to Section 183.021 of the Codified Ordinances of Cleveland, Ohio 1976, the
Commissioner of Purchases and Supplies is hereby authorized to sell
Permanent Parcel No(s). 017-04-001,
017-04-002 and 017-04-003, as more
fully described below, to Cudell
Improvement, Inc.
Section 2. That the real property
to be sold pursuant to this ordinance
is more fully described as follows:
P. P. Nos. 017-04-001 and
017-04-002
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
Nos. 1 and 2 in G. P. Geib’s Allot-

June 20, 2001
ment of part of Original Brooklyn
Township Lot No. 14, as shown by
the recorded plat in Volume 16 of
Maps, Page 27 of Cuyahoga County
Records, and together forming a
parcel of land 101.44 feet on the
Southerly side of Clark Avenue,
S.W., 122.79 feet deep on the Easterly line, 120 feet deep on the Westerly line (which is also the Easterly line of West 90th Street (formerly Yonkers Street) and 101.40 feet in
the rear as appears by said plat, be
the same more or less, but subject
to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
P. P. No. 017-04-003
Situated in the City of Cleveland,
County of Cuyahoga and State of
Ohio, and known as being Sublot
Nos. 148, 149 and 150 in Pelton Farm
Allotment of part of Original Brooklyn Township Lots Nos. 14 and 27,
as shown by the recorded plat in
Volume 17 of Maps, Page 22 of Cuyahoga County Records, and together
forming a parcel of land 124.04 feet
front on the Southerly side of Clark
Avenue, S.W., 125.04 feet on the
Westerly line, 125.04 feet deep on
the Easterly line (which also is the
Westerly line of West 88th Street
(formerly Libbie Street) and 124.04
feet in the rear, as appears by said
plat, be the same more or less, but
subject to all legal highways.
Subject to zoning ordinances, if
any.
Section 3.
That all documents
necessary
to
complete
the
conveyance authorized by this ordinance shall be executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance. If all of the documents are not executed within six
(6) months of the effective date of
this ordinance, or such additional
time as may be granted by the
Director
of
Community
Development,
this
ordinance
shall
be
repealed and shall be of no further
force or effect.
Section 4. That the consideration
for the subject parcel shall be established by the Board of Control and
shall be not less than Fair Market
Value taking into account such
terms and conditions, restrictions
and covenants as are deemed necessary or appropriate.
Section 5. That the conveyance
authorized hereby shall be made by
official deed prepared by the Director of Law and executed by the
Mayor on behalf of the City of
Cleveland. The deed shall contain
such provisions as may be necessary
to protect and benefit the public
interest including such restrictive
covenants and reversionary interests as may be specified by the
Board of Control, the Director of
Community
Development
or
the
Director of Law.
Section 6. That this ordinance is
hereby declared to be an emergency
measure and, provided it receives
the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
all the members elected to Council,
it shall take effect and be in force
immediately upon its passage and
approval by the Mayor; otherwise it
shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
Passed June 11, 2001.
Effective June 20, 2001.

The City Record
COUNCIL COMMITTEE
MEETINGS
Thursday, June 18, 2001
Public Parks, Property and Recreation Committee (Joint With Public
Service Committee, Public Utilities
Committee and Finance Committee):
9:30 a.m. — Present: Rybka, Chairman; Dolan, Vice Chairman; Brady,
Britt, Johnson, Reed, Sweeney.
Public Service Committee (Joint
With Public Parks, Property and
Recreation Committee, Public Utilities Committee and Finance Committee): 9:30 a.m. — Present: Cintron,
Chairman;
Sweeney,
Vice
Chairman; Coats, Johnson, Jones,
Melena, O’Malley, Westbrook, Willis.
Public Utilities Committee (Joint
With Public Parks, Property and
Recreation Committee, Public Service Committee and Finance Committee): 9:30 a.m. — Present: O’Malley, Chairman; Patmon, Vice Chairman; Britt, Coats, Dolan, Melena,
Polensek, Westbrook, Willis.
Finance Committee (Joint With
Public Parks, Property and Recreation
Committee,
Public
Service
Committee and Public Utilities Committee): 9:30 a.m. — Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cintron, Dolan, Lewis,
Melena,
O’Malley,
Polensek,
Sweeney, White.
Public Service Committee (Joint
With City Planning Committee and
Finance Committee): 11:00 a.m. —
Present:
Cintron,
Chairman;
Sweeney,
Vice
Chairman;
Coats,
Johnson, Jones, Melena, O’Malley,
Westbrook, Willis.

131
Community & Economic Development Committee (Joint With Legislation Committee, City Planning
Committee, Public Safety Committee
and Finance Committee): 1:00 p.m.
— Present:
Melena, Chairman;
Lewis, Vice Chairman; Brady, Cimperman, Cintron, Jackson, Johnson,
Jones, Willis.
Legislation
Committee
(Joint
With Community & Economic Development Committee, City Planning
Committee, Public Safety Committee
and Finance Committee): 1:30 p.m.
— Present: Lewis, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Coats, Gordon, Reed,
White, Westbrook.
City Planning Committee (Joint
With Community & Economic Development Committee, Legislation Committee, Public Safety Committee,
and Finance Committee): 1:30 p.m.
— Present:
Cimperman, Chairman;
Rybka, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Jackson, O’Malley, Reed, White.
Public Safety Committee (Joint
With Community & Economic Development Committee, Legislation Committee, City Planning Committee
and Finance Committee): 1:30 p.m.
— Present:
Polensek, Chairman;
Patmon, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Gordon, Jackson,
Melena, Sweeney.
Finance Committee (Joint With
Community & Economic Development Committee, Legislation Committee, City Planning Committee
and Public Safety Committee): 1:30
p.m. — Present: Patmon, Chairman;
Rybka, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cintron, Dolan, Lewis, Melena, O’Malley, Polensek, Sweeney, White.
Legislation
Committee
(Joint
With Finance Committee): 2:00 p.m.
— Present: Lewis, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Coats, Gordon, Reed,
White, Westbrook.

City Planning Committee (Joint
With Public Service Committee and
Finance Committee): 11:00 a.m. —
Present:
Cimperman, Chairman;
Rybka, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Jackson, O’Malley, Reed, White.

Finance Committee (Joint With
Legislation Committee): 2:00 p.m. —
Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan,
Lewis,
Melena,
O’Malley,
Polensek, Sweeney, White.

Finance Committee (Joint With
Public Service Committee and City
Planning Committee): 11:00 a.m. —
Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan,
Lewis,
Melena,
O’Malley,
Polensek, Sweeney, White.

Public Health Committee (Joint
With Aviation and Transportation
Committee and Finance Committee):
2:30 p.m. — Present: Gordon, Chairman; Brady, Vice Chairman; Cimperman, Jackson, Reed, Westbrook,
Willis.

Employment, Affirmative Action
and
Training
Committee
(Joint
With Legislation Committee and
Finance Committee): 11:30 a.m. —
Present:
White, Chairman; Lewis,
Vice Chairman; Cintron, Coats, Gordon, Johnson, Jones.

Aviation and Transportation Committee (Joint With Public Health
Committee and Finance Committee):
2:30 p.m. — Present: Dolan, Chairman;
O’Malley,
Vice
Chairman;
Brady,
Jones,
Patmon,
Rybka,
Sweeney.

Legislation
Committee
(Joint
With
Employment,
Affirmative
Action and Training Committee and
Finance Committee): 11:30 a.m. —
Present:
Lewis, Chairman; Jones,
Vice Chairman; Coats, Gordon, Reed,
White, Westbrook.
Finance Committee (Joint With
Employment,
Affirmative
Action
and Training Committee and Legislation Committee): 11:30 a.m. — Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan,
Lewis,
Melena,
O’Malley,
Polensek, Sweeney, White.
Mayor’s Appointment Committee:
12:30 p.m. — Present:
Cintron,
Chairman; Sweeney, Britt, Jackson,
Jones.

1433

Finance Committee (Joint With
Public Health Committee and Aviation and Transportation Committee):
2:30 p.m. — Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman; Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan,
Lewis,
Melena,
O’Malley, Polensek, Sweeney, White.
Aviation and Transportation Committee (Joint With Finance Committee): 3:00 p.m. — Present: Dolan,
Chairman; O’Malley, Vice Chairman;
Brady,
Jones,
Patmon,
Rybka,
Sweeney.
Finance Committee (Joint With
Aviation and Transportation Committee): 3:00 p.m. — Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cintron, Dolan, Lewis,
Melena,
O’Malley,
Polensek,
Sweeney, White.

The City Record

132
Public Safety Committee (Joint
With Finance Committee): 4:00 p.m.
— Present:
Polensek, Chairman;
Patmon, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cimperman, Coats, Gordon, Jackson,
Melena, Sweeney.
Finance Committee (Joint With
Public Safety Committee): 4:00 p.m.
— Present:
Patmon, Chairman;
Rybka, Vice Chairman; Britt, Cintron, Dolan, Lewis, Melena, O’Malley, Polensek, Sweeney, White.
City Planning Committee (Joint
With Public Health Committee and

Finance Committee): 4:30 p.m. —
Present:
Cimperman, Chairman;
Rybka, Vice Chairman; Dolan, Jackson, O’Malley, Reed, White.
Public Health Committee
(Joint
With City Planning Committee and
Finance Committee): 4:30 p.m. —
Present: Gordon, Chairman; Brady,
Vice Chairman; Cimperman, Jackson, Reed, Westbrook, Willis.
Finance Committee (Joint With
City Planning Committee and Public Health Committee): 4:30 p.m. —
Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka,

June 20, 2001
Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan,
Lewis,
Melena,
O’Malley,
Polensek, Sweeney, White.
Finance Committee: 5:00 p.m. —
Present: Patmon, Chairman; Rybka,
Vice
Chairman;
Britt,
Cintron,
Dolan,
Lewis,
Melena,
O’Malley,
Polensek, Sweeney, White.
Wednesday, June 20, 2001
Aviation and Transportation Committee: 11:00 a.m. — Present: Dolan,
Chairman; O’Malley, Vice Chairman;
Brady, Patmon, Rybka, Sweeney.

Index
O—Ordinance; R—Resolution; F—File
Bold figures—Final Publication; D—Defeated; R—Reprint; T—Tabled; V—Vetoed;
Bold type in sections indicates amendments

Administrative Services Division
Kelly Services, Inc. — clerical and secretarial services (O 838-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338
Aging Department
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) — CHORE Program — Community
Development Block Grant funds (O 835-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338
Agreements
Tariff agreement — Dominion East Ohio — Public Utilities Commission of Ohio — Payment
and Billing Explanation Center (R 384-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
West 25th - Lorain Community Development Plan — Fries & Schuele, Ltd (O 893-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339
AIDS
Related services — Community Development (O 1027-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
Related services — Public Health (O 1030-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
Program — evaluation — Cleveland State University (O 1259-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1328
American Heart Association
American Heart Walk — permit (O 1250-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326
Appropriations
Neighborhood Equity Fund projects — funds (O 1139-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1348
West 25th-Lorain Community Development Plan — mixed-use development (R 940-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1349
Banners
Glenville Community’s Youth Opportunity Center — Grand Opening (O 1176-01). . . . . . . .
God’s House of Prayer and Deliverance — special event (O 1093-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grace Hospital — Hospital’s Health Fair (O 1257-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mystic Knights — annual event (O 1097-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parents and Children for Equality (PACE) — Both Parents are Important (O 1088-01) .
Sagrada Familia Church — annual festival (O 1258-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sagrada Familia Church — Church Festival (O 1094-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair/Superior Neighborhood Development Association — Neighborhood
Festival (O 1173-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ward 6 Multi-Cultural Community Festival — (O 1248-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Westown Community Development Corp. — Location Identification —(O 1086-01). . . . . . .
YMCA — (Ward 5) (O 1225-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1419
1414
1327
1415
1412
1327
1414

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1416
1325
1412
1316

Billboards
Billboards — amend Sect. 350.10 — airport and lakefront public land
protective districts — new Sect. 341.021 — W. 11 St. — change districts of lands
(O 452-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1348

1434

June 20, 2001

The City Record

133

Block Grants
Demolition, removal, boarding up — structures within the City
of Cleveland (O 741-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Project Clean Program (O 738-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Board of Control - Burke Lakefront Airport Division
McBride, Molly - concession agreement for wedding reception - October 13, 2001 - Division
of Burke Lakefront Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 390-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
Board of Control - Cleveland Hopkins International Airport Division
Centralized Deicing Facility Phase 1A - approve subcontractors - BOC Res. 736-00 Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 391-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
Security upgrade - contract pursuant to Ord. 1269-97 to Grinnell Fire Protection Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 392-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
Board of Control - Community Development Department
Brayton Avenue, 782 (Ward 13) - PPN 004-22-045 - to Renee T. Kolecki (BOC Res. 398-01) . . . . .
East 68th Street, 2190 (Ward 5) - PPN 118-23-014 - to Lila Mills pursuant to Ord. 1965-99
(BOC Res. 399-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Emery Avenue, 12212 (Ward 19) - PPN 019-14-066 - to Robert Coleman and Mamie L. Coleman
(BOC Res. 396-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Millcreek Housing Development project, Phase IVA - contract pursuant to Ord. 1117-2000
and 2272-2000 to DiGioia-Suburban Excavating, LLC - Division of Engineering and
Construction, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 400-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thurman Street, 2478 (Ward 13) - PPN 004-17-132 - to Philip Keefer and Mary A.
Keefer (BOC Res. 397-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1351

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1351

Board of Control - Concession Agreement
McBride, Molly - concession agreement for wedding reception - October 13, 2001 - Division
of Burke Lakefront Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 390-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
Board of Control - Engineering and Construction Division
Millcreek Housing Development project, Phase IVA - contract pursuant to Ord. 1117-2000
and 2272-2000 to DiGioia-Suburban Excavating, LLC - Division of Engineering and
Construction, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 400-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
State Road rehabilitation - contract pursuant to Ord. 1284-99 and 730-2000 to Perk
Company, Inc. - Division of Engineering and Construction, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 393-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
Board of Control - Finance Department
Filing system, high density - contract pursuant to Ord. 1196-2000 to Central
Business Equipment, d.b.a. Central Business Group - Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 384-01)
Filing system, high density - pursuant to Ord. 1196-2000 - bids rejected - Dept. of
Finance (BOC Res. 385-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Messenger services - contract pursuant to Ord. 654-01 to Bonnie Speed Delivery, Inc. Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 386-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sell PPN 133-27-030A - to Broadway-Booth Car Wash, LLC pursuant to Ord. 747-01 - rescind
BOC 238-01 (BOC Res. 395-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1349
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1349
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1349
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1351

Board of Control - Land Reutilization Program
Brayton Avenue, 782 (Ward 13) - PPN 004-22-045 - to Renee T. Kolecki (BOC Res. 398-01) . . . . .
East 68th Street, 2190 (Ward 5) - PPN 118-23-014 - to Lila Mills pursuant to Ord. 1965-99
(BOC Res. 399-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Emery Avenue, 12212 (Ward 19) - PPN 019-14-066 - to Robert Coleman and Mamie L. Coleman
(BOC Res. 396-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thurman Street, 2478 (Ward 13) - PPN 004-17-132 - to Philip Keefer and Mary A.
Keefer (BOC Res. 397-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1351
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1351

Board of Control - Land Sales
Sell PPN 133-27-030A - to Broadway-Booth Car Wash, LLC pursuant to Ord. 747-01 - rescind
BOC 238-01 (BOC Res. 395-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1351

1435

The City Record

134

June 20, 2001

Board of Control - Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Rockefeller Park Greenhouse entrance and lobby renovation design services - contract
pursuant to Ord. 1727-2000 to DLZ Ohio Inc. - Dept. of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (BOC Res. 394-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1351
Board of Control - Port Control Department
Centralized Deicing Facility Phase 1A - approve subcontractors - BOC Res. 736-00 Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 391-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
McBride, Molly - concession agreement for wedding reception - October 13, 2001 - Division
of Burke Lakefront Airport, Dept. of Port Control (BOC Res. 390-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
Security upgrade - contract pursuant to Ord. 1269-97 to Grinnell Fire Protection Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 392-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
Board of Control - Professional Service Contracts
Brochures, consumer information for the Division of Water - approve subcontractors - BOC
Res. 140-01 - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 387-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
Rockefeller Park Greenhouse entrance and lobby renovation design services - contract
pursuant to Ord. 1727-2000 to DLZ Ohio Inc. - Dept. of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (BOC Res. 394-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1351
Board of Control - Public Improvement Contracts
Centralized Deicing Facility Phase 1A - approve subcontractors - BOC Res. 736-00 Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 391-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Millcreek Housing Development project, Phase IVA - contract pursuant to Ord. 1117-2000
and 2272-2000 to DiGioia-Suburban Excavating, LLC - Division of Engineering and
Construction, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 400-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Security upgrade - contract pursuant to Ord. 1269-97 to Grinnell Fire Protection Division of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, Dept. of Port Control
(BOC Res. 392-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Road rehabilitation - contract pursuant to Ord. 1284-99 and 730-2000 to Perk
Company, Inc. - Division of Engineering and Construction, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 393-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350

Board of Control - Public Service Department
Millcreek Housing Development project, Phase IVA - contract pursuant to Ord. 1117-2000
and 2272-2000 to DiGioia-Suburban Excavating, LLC - Division of Engineering and
Construction, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 400-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
State Road rehabilitation - contract pursuant to Ord. 1284-99 and 730-2000 to Perk
Company, Inc. - Division of Engineering and Construction, Dept. of Public Service
(BOC Res. 393-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
Board of Control - Public Utilities Department
Brochures, consumer information for the Division of Water - approve subcontractors - BOC
Res. 140-01 - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 387-01) . . . . . . . . . . .
Fire hydrants, labor and materials to repair - approve subcontractors - Contract #57830
- BOC Res. 308-01 - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 388-01) . . . . . .
Millcreek Housing Development project, Phase IVA - contract pursuant to Ord. 1117-2000
and 2272-2000 to DiGioia-Suburban Excavating, LLC - Division of Engineering and
Construction, Dept. of Public Service (BOC Res. 400-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains and appurtenances (Area D), repair of - amend BOC Res. 320-01 - Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 389-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350

Board of Control - Purchases and Supplies Division
Sell PPN 133-27-030A - to Broadway-Booth Car Wash, LLC pursuant to Ord. 747-01 - rescind
BOC 238-01 (BOC Res. 395-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1351
Board of Control - Requirement Contracts
Filing system, high density - contract pursuant to Ord. 1196-2000 to Central
Business Equipment, d.b.a. Central Business Group - Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 384-01)
Fire hydrants, labor and materials to repair - approve subcontractors - Contract #57830
- BOC Res. 308-01 - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 388-01) . . . . . . . .
Messenger services - contract pursuant to Ord. 654-01 to Bonnie Speed Delivery, Inc. Dept. of Finance (BOC Res. 386-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water mains and appurtenances (Area D), repair of - amend BOC Res. 320-01 - Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 389-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1436

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1349
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1349
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350

June 20, 2001

The City Record

135

Board of Control - Rockefeller Park Greenhouse
Rockefeller Park Greenhouse entrance and lobby renovation design services - contract
pursuant to Ord. 1727-2000 to DLZ Ohio Inc. - Dept. of Parks, Recreation and
Properties (BOC Res. 394-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1351
Board of Control - Water Division
Brochures, consumer information for the Division of Water - approve subcontractors - BOC
Res. 140-01 - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 387-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
Fire hydrants, labor and materials to repair - approve subcontractors - Contract #57830
- BOC Res. 308-01 - Division of Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 388-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
Water mains and appurtenances (Area D), repair of - amend BOC Res. 320-01 - Division of
Water, Dept. of Public Utilities (BOC Res. 389-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1350
Board of Education
Lease Agreement — Contract No. 30237 — Terminate — Parks, Recreation and Properties
(O 927-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341
Board of Zoning Appeals - Report
Broadway Avenue, 6114, (Ward 12) – Boys and Girls Club of Cleveland, owner and Jeff
Foster, agent - appeal heard on 6/18/01 (Cal. 01-128) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 179th Street, 1333, (Ward 11) – Cleveland Range, Inc., owner, c/o Ernie Sullivan appeal dismissed on 6/18/01 (Cal. 01-105) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 71st Street, 4226, (Ward 12) – William Teresko, owner - appeal postponed to 7/9/01
on 6/18/01 (Cal. 01-101) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Literary Road, 921, (Ward 13) – T & T Studio, owner c/o Thomas Tomsik - appeal granted
and adopted on 6/18/01 (Cal. 01-97). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pearl Road, 4635, (Ward 16) – Pearlbrook Church of God, owner c/o Antoinette Freeburg,
agent - appeal heard on 6/18/01 (Cal. 01-88) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rocky River Drive, 4293, (Ward 21) – Katherine Kullman, owner - appeal heard on 6/18/01
(Cal. 01-104) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rowley Avenue, 1103, (Ward 12) – Nikolay Adamyuk, owner - appeal withdrawn on
6/18/01 (Cal. 01-106) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Watterson Avenue, 12925, (Ward 2) – Michele Banks and Rhonda Turpin, owners - appeal
granted and adopted on 6/18/01 (Cal. 01-116) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 160th Street, 4136, (Ward 21) – Lee Grether, owner - appeal heard on 6/18/01
(Cal. 01-103) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353

Board of Zoning Appeals - Schedule
East 53rd Street, 3872, (Ward 12) – James Hlavsa, owner - appeal to be heard on 7/2/01
(Cal. 01-114) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeview Road, 1347, (Ward 9) – Daisy Burch, owner - appeal to be heard on 7/2/01
(Cal. 01-112) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old River Road, 1045, (Ward 13) – Spenco Partnership, owners dba Circus-Circus Nightclub
- appeal to be heard on 7/2/01 (Cal. 01-120) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Avenue, 10411-10433, (Ward 8) – McDonald’s Corporation, owner
c/o Dave Gnatowski - appeal to be heard on 7/2/01 (Cal. 01-121) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trafalgar Avenue, 16215, (Ward 11) – Yolanda Harris, owner - appeal to be heard on 7/2/01
(Cal. 01-117) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 191st Street, 4375, (Ward 21) – Elizabeth Legler, owner - appeal to be heard
on 7/2/01 (Cal. 01-111) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1353
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1352

Bonds
Urban Renewal Temporary Bonds — issuance (O 168-A-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Cleveland
Broadway and Morgana Ave. — Land Reutilization Program (O 1165-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1348
Positive Place for Kids Program — Ward 12 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1241-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321
Buckeye Area Development Corporation
First Amendment — Contract No. 56406 (O 829-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Hulda Ave. — yard lamps — Ward 6 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1212-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1313
Budget
Tax Budget 2002 (R 1085-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1356

1437

The City Record

136

June 20, 2001

Building Code
Zoning, Housing and Building Codes — penalties for violations — amend Sects. 327.99,
367.99 & 3103.99 (O 542-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336
Burke Lakefront Airport
Automatic doors — maintain (O 1014-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Plumbing systems - maintenance (O 1016-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
City Council
Schedule — summer meetings (R 1270-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1332
City Hall
Carpet — various locations — replace (O 1076-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
City of Cleveland Bids
AutoCad software, installation and support - Department of Public Service - Division of
Engineering and Construction - per Ord. 1198-2000 - bid due July 6, 2001
(advertised 6/20/2001 and 6/27/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Automotive and truck parts/service - Department of Public Utilities - Division of
Cleveland Public Power - per Ord. 544-01 - bid due July 12, 2001(advertised 6/20/2001 and 6/27/2001)
Autosampler - Department of Public Safety - Division of Police - per Ord. 1656-99 - bid
due July 5, 2001(advertised 6/13/2001 and 6/20/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Baldwin Waterworks Gatehouse #1 - emergency roof repair - Department of Public Utilities
- Division of Water - per Ord. 819-2000 - bid due July 11, 2001(advertised 6/13/2001 and 6/20/2001) . . .
Bulk waste transfer and disposal (Contract B) - Department of Public Service - Division
of Waste Collection and Disposal - per Ord. 436-01 - bid due July 6, 2001
(advertised 6/20/2001 and 6/27/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chrysler parts and labor - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor Vehicle
Maintenance - per Ord. 359-01 - bid due June 29, 2001(advertised 6/13/2001 and 6/20/2001) . . . . . . . . . .
Debris (construction and demolition) disposal (Contracts C and D) - Department of Public
Service - Division of Waste Collection and Disposal - per Ord. 432-01 - bid due July
6, 2001(advertised 6/20/2001 and 6/27/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Furniture - Department of Public Safety - Division of Fire - per Ord. 927-2000 - bid due
July 11, 2001(advertised 6/13/2001 and 6/20/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gas chromatograph mass selective system - Department of Public Safety - Division of
Police - per Ord. 1656-99 - bid due July 5, 2001(advertised 6/13/2001 and 6/20/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Painting, plastering and carpet replacement at fire and police stations - Department of
Public Service - per Ord. 927-2000 - bid due July 12, 2001(advertised 6/20/2001 and 6/27/2001) . . . . . . .
Pavement grinding - Department of Public Service - Division of Streets - per Ord.
1681-2000 - bid due July 12, 2001(advertised 6/20/2001 and 6/27/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pavers, concrete - Department of Public Service - Division of Engineering and
Construction - bid due July 6, 2001(advertised 6/20/2001 and 6/27/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewer test tee inspection, installation and snaking - Department of Public Utilities Division of Water Pollution Control - per C.O. Sec. 541.13 - bid due June 29,
2001(advertised 6/13/2001 and 6/20/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sites, clean-up and securing - Department of Community Development - per Ord. 136-01 bid due July 12, 2001(advertised 6/20/2001 and 6/27/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sodium hypochlorite solution - Department of Public Utilities - Division of Water - per
C.O. Sec. 129.24 - bid due July 25, 2001(advertised 6/13/2001 and 6/20/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Solid waste contract, direct haul / contingency - Department of Public Service - Division
of Waste Collection and Disposal - per Ord. 646-01 - bid due July 6, 2001
(advertised 6/20/2001 and 6/27/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Trench water management services - Department of Port Control - Division
of Cleveland Hopkins International Airport - bid due July 25, 2001
(advertised 6/20/2001 and 6/27/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Underground storage tank removal and disposal - Department of Public Service - per Ord.
136-01 - bid due July 12, 2001(advertised 6/20/2001 and 6/27/2001) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Van (prisoner) conversion interiors - Department of Public Service - Division of Motor
Vehicle Maintenance - per Ord. 1656-99 - bid due July 12, 2001(advertised 6/20/2001 and 6/27/2001) . .
Woodside and Edmonton area detention facility - Department of Public Utilities - Division
of Water Pollution Control - per Ord. 1948-98 - bid due June 28, 2001
(advertised 6/13/2001 and 6/20/2001). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . 1354

. . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . 1354

. . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . 1354

. . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . 1354

. . . . . . 1354

. . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . 1354
. . . . . . 1355

. . . . . . 1354

City Planning Commission
Billboards — amend Sect. 350.10 — airport and lakefront public land
protective districts — new Sect. 341.021 — W. 11 St. — change districts of lands
(O 452-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1348

1438

June 20, 2001

The City Record

137

Civic Vision 2010 Citywide Plan web site — establish — Environmental Systems Research
Systems — contract (O 1022-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Community Reinvestment Area — establish — amend Ord. No. 1776-A-90 (O 1089-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1413
Guardian Trust Bank Building - Lorain - West 117th Street Branch — Landmark
(O 1211-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1313
Civil Service Commission
EMT supervisor examination — job analysis — professional services
Emergency Medical Services (O 314-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grade promotional examinations — consultants — Division of Police
Promotional examinations — develop and administer (O 290-01). . . . . .

—
...
(O
...

Division of
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1386
313-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385

Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI)
Two easements — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 703-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
Air BP — easement rights (O 214-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1381
Auto Parking Development Plan — revised April, 2001 (F 1189-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
Automatic doors — maintain (O 1014-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — two easements (O 703-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Erosion and sediment control specialist (O 1119-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
Fuel farm — amend Ord. No. 641-01 (O 1266-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1331
Fuel farm — employ professional consultants (O 641-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Ground water — collection, sampling, transportation and disposal (O 1123-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
Long Term Parking Garage structure — constructing or repairing and upgrading
(O 915-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1382
Maintenance vehicles and equipment — maintain (O 1003-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341
Parsons Infrastructure and Technology, Inc. — airport expansion — Contract
— amend (O 1005-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341
Plumbing systems - maintenance (O 1016-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Radiant Energy Services — aircraft deicing facility (O 1221-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1315
Remediating soil (O 1126-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
Roofing systems — repair (O 1012-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Snow removal equipment — rent (O 1007-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341
Upper level roadway — removing and replacing (O 918-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1333
Cleveland Housing Network
First Amendment — Contract No. 56263 (O 1254-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1327
Low income housing units — acquisition, rehabilitation or construction (O 909-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
Low income rental housing — loan assistance (O 906-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
Cleveland Municipal Court
Community services — criminal defendants (O 917-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1409
Legal services — Cuyahoga County Public Defender Commission (O 1038-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
Cleveland Municipal School District
Fuentes-Casiano, Edna — appointment — Cleveland Municipal School District Nominating
Panel (F 1185-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
School-to-Work Program 2001 — grant — U.S. Department of Labor (O 1042-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
Cleveland Neighborhood Development Corporation
Cleveland Industrial Retention Initiative — administration (O 1041-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
Cleveland Public Power
Eastside Service Center — operation (O 843-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
Cleveland Public Schools
Lease Agreement — Contract No. 30237 — Terminate — Board of Education — Parks,
Recreation and Properties (O 927-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341
Cleveland State University
HIV/AIDS program — evaluation (O 1259-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1328

1439

The City Record

138

June 20, 2001

Codified Ordinances
Billboards — amend Sect. 350.10 — airport and lakefront public land
protective districts — new Sect. 341.021 — W. 11 St. — change districts of lands
(O 452-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carriage — definition — amend Section 447.01 (O 437-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cell phones — motor vehicles — new Section 433.08 (O 1219-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City transfer site use — amend Section 551.29 (O 814-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deposit and investment of City funds — definitions — amend Sec. 178.01 (O 919-01) . . . .
Live-Work Overlay Districts — new Sections 346.01 through 346.09 and 170.06
(O 309-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pedestrian barriers — Cuyahoga and Old Rivers — new Section 3123.10 (O 812-01) . . . . .
Storage fee at vehicle pound — amend Section 405.04 (O 2208-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Unlawful discriminatory conduct — amend Secs. 665.02, 665.04, 665.051, 665.09 and 665.99
(O 1081-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wards — reapportion — Secs. 103.01 to 103.21 (O 1177-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Zoning, Housing and Building Codes — penalties for violations — amend Sects. 327.99,
367.99 & 3103.99 (O 542-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1348
1335
1314
1337
1410

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1419
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336

Communications
Auto Parking Development Plan — revised April, 2001 (F 1189-01) . . . . . . . . . . .
Fuentes-Casiano, Edna — appointment — Cleveland Municipal School District
Panel (F 1185-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
ODOT District 12 Construction Projects, Year 2000 (F 1188-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Otis Associates Limited Partnership Rent Reimbursement Notice (F 1187-01). .
Tavill, Frederick Dr. — Medical Consulting Services (F 1184-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
U.S. Route 322 — State Project No. 295 — Contract (F 1186-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

............
Nominating
............
............
............
............
............

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1306
1306
1306
1306
1306

Community Development
A Cultural Exchange — after school literacy — Ward 2,4 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1228-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1318
A Cultural Exchange — after-school literacy project — 50 children in Ward 6 — Ward 6
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 166-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1384
AIDS-related services (O 1027-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
Barkwill Park — landscaping and maintenance (O 1023-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Boys and Girls Club - Positive Place for Kids program — Ward 12 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 1241-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321
Buckeye Area Dev. Corp. — First Amendment — Contract No. 56406 (O 829-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
Buckeye Area Development Corp. — yard lamps — Hulda Avenue — Ward 6 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1212-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1313
City’s community development programs — enter into or amend — contracts
(O 840-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
Cityworks Program — implement — community improvement groups (O 912-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
Cleveland Action to Support Housing (CASH) — housing rehabilitation — new construction
(O 836-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
Cleveland Housing Network — First Amendment — Contract No. 56263 (O 1254-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1327
Cleveland Housing Network — low income housing units — acquisition, rehabilitation or
construction (O 909-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
Cleveland Housing Network — Low income rental housing — loan assistance
(O 906-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
Colonial and Euclid Arcades — rehabilitation — HUD 108 Loan requirements — amend Ord.
No. 925-98 (O 1135-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
Community garden program — non-profit agency (O 837-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act — (the “Plan”) — affordable housing
(O 798-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336
Demolition, removal, boarding up — structures within the City
of Cleveland (O 741-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
E. 40th St. — between Community College Avenue, S.E. — Planned Unit Development project
(O 748-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1349
EBC Fery Dev. Corp. — Community Outreach Program — Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1218-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1314
Esperenanza, Inc. — educational programming — Ward 14 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 815-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
Esperenanza, Inc. — relocation — programmatic — Ward 17 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 832-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338
Fair housing services — Community Development Block Grant funds (O 740-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336
Famicos Foundation — Community Development Float Loans (O 1229-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1318
Harvard School Senior Apartments project — amend Ord. 1083-2000 — Ward 12 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1240-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321
HIV/AIDS program — evaluation — Cleveland State University (O 1259-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1328
Housing Rehabilitation Programs — Federal HOME Program funds (O 739-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Housing Trust Fund Program — contracts (O 1044-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345
Housing, commercial, industrial and real estate development activities — contract
— various agencies (O 913-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340

1440

June 20, 2001

The City Record

139

Kamm’s Corner Development Corporation — amend Ord. No. 1737-2000 — Ward 21 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1220-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1314
Kelly Services, Inc. — clerical and secretarial services — Division of Administrative
Services (O 838-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338
Lakeside Ave., 2100 — redevelopment — Salvation Army (O 1021-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Longwood Apartments — redevelopment — Public Service, Parks, Recreation and Properties,
Public Utilities Departments (O 898-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs — Community Development Block Grant funds —
Federal Home funds (O 839-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
MetroHealth — AIDS/HIV outreach — Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 826-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
Morgana Little League — provide recreational services — Ward 12 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1242-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend Ord. 113-2000 (O 1235-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend Ord. 1137-2000 (O 1237-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1320
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend Ord. 1715-99 (O 1213-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1313
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend Ord. 606-2000 (O 1227-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1318
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service Center — Ninth Annual African American Family Day Picnic
— Ward 3 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1239-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321
Neighborhood Equity Fund projects — Appropriating funds (O 1139-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1348
Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency — Big Creek Environmental Study
— amend Ord. No. 2163-2000 — Ward 15 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 895-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
Ohio Canal Corridor — History Hike programs — Ward 15 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1091-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1413
Old Brooklyn Community Development Corp. — yard lamps — Ward 15 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1223-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1315
Otis Associates Limited Partnership — modifications — Loan Agreement No.
53646 (O 1231-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1319
Parkworks — Adult Basic Landscaping Training Program — Ward 8 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1233-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1319
Project Clean Program — Community Development Block Grant funds (O 738-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Rainbow Terrace Apartments — improvements — grant (O 1226-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1317
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) — CHORE Program — Community
Development Block Grant funds (O 835-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338
Shaker Square Area Dev. Corp. — Fairwood Homeward Program Write-down Fund — Ward
6 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 886-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338
Sister Servants of Mary — secular outreach programs — Ward 12 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1243-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1322
Social service programs — recreation activities — City departments (O 914-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
St. Clair Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Lawrence Hunt (O 612-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Arts Festival — Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1215-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1313
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Dev. Assoc. — festival — Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 808-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
Storefront Renovation Program — operation — Block Grant funds (O 911-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
Superior Ave. properties — Land Reutilization Program — Refreshing Spring Baptist
Ministries Church (O 1010-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412
Touchstone Management — Hilltop Estates improvements — Ward 10 Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 818-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
Transfer — General Fund — Public Health (O 896-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339
Tremont West Development Corporation — HOPE VI — amend Ord. No. 809-01 — Ward 13
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1216-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1314
University Settlement — hunger program — Ward 12 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1244-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1322
W. 44th St., 1787 — purchase (O 1217-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1314
Ward19.com Program — Westown Community Dev., Corp. — Ward 19 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 644-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336
West 25th - Lorain Community Development Plan — amendments (O 892-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339
West 25th - Lorain Community Development Plan — Fries & Schuele, Ltd — agreement
(O 893-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339
West 25th-Lorain Community Development Plan — appropriate — mixed-use development
(R 940-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1349
Year XXVII Community Development Block Grant — improvement (O 904-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
Your Home Program — contracts (O 908-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
Youth Developmental Basketball League — City-wide athletic program (O 1026-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
Community Development Block Grant Program
Low Interest Loan and Grant Programs — Federal Home funds (O 839-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
Senior Homeowners Assistance Program (SHAP) — CHORE Program (O 835-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338
Community Development Plan
West 25th - Lorain Community Development Plan — amendments (O 892-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339

1441

The City Record

140

June 20, 2001

Community Relations Board
20th Anniversary Police/Community Relations District Committees —
— Cleveland Foundation (O 1168-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fair housing services — Community Development Block Grant funds
Teen Court Program 2001 — YMCA — grant (O 1082-01) . . . . . . . . . . . .

grant
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1348
(O 740-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347

Condolences
Bradley,
Browne,
Jezeski,
Thomas,

Pitzer (R 1202-01). . . . . . . . . . .
Walter W. (R 1200-01). . . . . . .
Henry A. (Rev.) (R 1203-01) .
Carl B. Sr. (R 1201-01) . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1306
1306
1306
1306

Cleveland Bridge Builders (R 1206-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hayes, Hunter, Johnson and Gibson Family Reunion (R 1207-01). . . .
Summers, Jr., William B. (R 1205-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Taylor, Willa Hemmons Ph.D. (R 1209-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Temmison, Collier, Cook and Ellsberry Family Reunion (R 1208-01) .
Yambor, Sandy (R 1204-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1306
. 1306
. 1306
. 1306
. 1306
. 1306

Congratulations

Contracts
Cleveland Housing Network — First Amendment — Contract No. 56263 (O 1254-01) . . . . . .
Eagle Avenue Bridge/West 3rd Street ramp — alterations and modifications — Contract
56174 — Perk Company, Inc. (O 493-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Otis Associates Limited Partnership — modifications — Loan Agreement No.
53646 (O 1231-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 32nd St. — between Walbrook Ave. & Oak Park Ave. — rehabilitation (O 742-01) . . . .
West Concourse apron — rehabilitation — Contract No. 48468 — Port Control
(O 1797-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1327
No.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1319
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334

Convention Center
Elevators and escalators — service and maintain — Stadium (O 621-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Criminal Justice Services
Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant Program — grant (O 496-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Cudell Improvement
Clark Ave. — Land Reutilization Program (O 1179-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1420
Cuyahoga County
Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of Homeless Services - implementation - amend Ord. No.
1876-2000 (O 907-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
W. 58th St. — Land Reutilization Program (O 1261-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1328
Dominion East Ohio
Tariff agreement — Public Utilities Commission of Ohio — Payment and Billing
Explanation Center (R 384-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
Easements
Air BP — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 214-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1381
Ameritech — Trust Indenture — Chase Manhattan Trust Company, National Association —
Port Control (O 1961-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1384
Tower City Riverview Company — West 3rd Street — entrance/exit drive (O 736-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
Economic Development Department
3500 Group, Ltd. — 3500 Lorain Ave. — Neighborhood Development
Investment Fund (O 1025-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carnegie Ave., 4310 — sell — ITX Corporation (O 1034-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave., 7210 — Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity — Stanley
(O 1035-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1442

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
Jackson
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344

June 20, 2001

The City Record

141

Cleveland Industrial Retention Initiative — administration — Cleveland
Neighborhood Development Corporation (O 1041-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
Colonial and Euclid Arcades — rehabilitation — HUD 108 Loan requirements — amend Ord.
No. 925-98 (O 1135-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
E. 12th St. and St. Clair Ave. - intersection - economic and community development
(O 168-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1312-T
E. 82nd St., 1906 — 7201 Wade Park Ave. — Eliza Bryant Center — Empowerment Zone
Section 108 — Grant Agreement (O 714-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Euclid Avenue, 8911 — improvements — Acquisition and Development Loan and Grant
Agreement — Cleveland Health Education Museum (O 1067-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1383
Initiative Grant and Title XX Grant funds — Empowerment Zone Program — expenditure —
amend Ord. No. 865-2000 (O 889-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
Initiative Grant Funds — expending — Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity Prog.
— amend Ord. No. 257-97 (O 905-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
Empowerment Zone Labor Force Development Program — implementation — Personnel and Human
Resources Department (O 910-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1409
Happy Times Day Care and Nursery School, Inc. — assistance — 12625 Lena Ave.
(O 931-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411
Happy Times Day Care and Nursery School, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 12625 Lena
Ave. (O 930-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1410
Jasper Ave., 10321 — improvements — A-1 Affordable Plumbing, Inc. (O 1080-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
KINBESS LLC - Neighborhood Development Investment Fund - Preble Ave. & E. 80th St.
(O 1033-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
Lassi Enterprises, L.L.C. — Empowerment Zone Acquisition — Development Loan — Grant
Agreement — future development (O 711-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
League Park — improvement (O 1138-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
Marketing — grant — Greater Cleveland Media Development Corporation (O 1043-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
Mercantile Road, 23600 — Unit J — lease property — Cleveland House of Corrections
(O 834-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338
Prospect Ave., 3751 — improvements — Empowerment Zone Section 108 — Economic
Development Initiative — Cleveland Restoration Society, Inc. (O 900-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
Quark Biotech, Inc. — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loans — Initiative Grant Agreements
— 10265 Carnegie Ave. (O 888-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
Quark Biotech, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 10265 Carnegie Avenue.
(O 887-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1406
School-to-Work Program 2001 — grant — U.S. Department of Labor (O 1042-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
Shaker Square Planned retail center — First Amendment — Contract No. 56087
— amend Ord. No. 2118-2000 (O 901-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
Tax Increment Financing Agreements — amend Ord. No. 867-2000 — Superior Ave.
(O 1039-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
Urban Renewal Temporary Bonds — issuance (O 168-A-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
West St., 955 — machinery — Flats Realty, LTD. (O 811-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
Youth Opportunity Program 2001 — grant — U.S. Department of Labor (O 1040-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
Empowerment Zone
Central Ave., 7210 — Business Opportunity — Stanley Jackson (O 1035-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1344
E. 82nd St., 1906 — 7201 Wade Park Ave. — Eliza Bryant Center — Section 108 — Grant
Agreement (O 714-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Eco. Dev. Initiative Grant and Title XX Grant funds — expenditure — amend Ord. No.
865-2000 (O 889-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
Eco. Dev. Initiative Grant Funds — expending — Business Opportunity Prog. — amend Ord.
No. 257-97 (O 905-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
Labor Force Development Program — implementation — Economic Development and Personnel
and Human Resources Department (O 910-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1409
Lassi Enterprises, L.L.C. — Acquisition — Development Loan — Grant Agreement — future
development (O 711-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
Prospect Ave., 3751 — improvements — Section 108 — Economic Development Initiative —
Cleveland Restoration Society, Inc. (O 900-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
Quark Biotech, Inc. — 108 loans — Initiative Grant Agreements — 10265 Carnegie Ave.
(O 888-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1407
Section 108 loan - Economic Development Initiative Grant Agreement - Famicos Foundation
(O 650-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Enterprise Zone Agreement
Happy Times Day Care and Nursery School, Inc. — construction at 12625 Lena Avenue
(O 930-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1410
Quark Biotech, Inc. — 10265 Carnegie Avenue (O 887-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1406
Famicos Foundation
Community Development Float Loans (O 1229-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1318
Lexington, Quinby and Linwood Avenues — Land Reutilization Program (O 1174-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1417
Section 108 loan - Economic Development Initiative Grant Agreement - Famicos Foundation
(O 650-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393

1443

The City Record

142

June 20, 2001

Fees
Storage fee at vehicle pound — amend Section 405.04 (O 2208-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334
Finance Department
Community services — criminal defendants — Cleveland Municipal Court (O 917-01) . . . . . . . . .
Compensation — amend Sec. 43 of Ord. No. 2274-2000 (O 1055-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report 1999 & 2000 — Division of Financial Reporting
(O 844-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deposit and investment of City funds — definitions — amend Sec. 178.01 (O 919-01) . . . . . . . . .
Desktop computer printers — purchase — various divisions (O 1056-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Express mail service - various divisions (O 1059-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equipment, furniture and supplies (O 1263-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Fund — transfer — Division of Park Maintenance (O 1095-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hand and power tools — purchase (O 743-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Income tax statements — manufacture, print, encode, sort and mail (O 1066-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Keys, locks, hardware — various divisions (O 1061-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lamps — various divisions (O 1062-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legal services — Cuyahoga County Public Defender Commission (O 1038-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moral Claims — payment (O 1057-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Office moving services (O 1236-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paint and equipment — various divisions (O 1060-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paper products — janitorial services (O 1058-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paving brick — building materials — purchase (O 745-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Peoplesoft Software modules — maintenance — Division of Financial Reporting and Control
(O 1068-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Plant, remove, replace, trim, create or excavate — blight and disease shades trees
(O 920-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shredding services (O 1234-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tax Budget 2002 (R 1085-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vehicles (O 1264-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wage and tax statements 2000 — convert (O 744-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1409
. . . . . . . . . . 1345
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1406
1410
1345
1345
1330
1414
1400
1345
1345
1345
1344
1345
1320
1345
1345
1401

. . . . . . . . . . 1346
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1410
1320
1356
1330
1400

Fire Division
Promotional examinations — Civil Service Commission(O 290-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
Safety boat — staff and operate (O 213-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1384-V
Flats District
Pedestrian barriers — Cuyahoga and Old Rivers — new Section 3123.10 (O 812-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
Funds
Deposit and investment of City funds — definitions — amend Sec. 178.01 (O 919-01) . . . . . . .
Eco. Dev. Initiative Grant — expending — Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity Prog.
— amend Ord. No. 257-97 (O 905-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Fund — transfer — Division of Park Maintenance (O 1095-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Housing Trust Fund Program — contracts (O 1044-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Special revenue subfund — food establishments — city — establish (O 1028-01) . . . . . . . . . . .
Transfer — General Fund — Public Health — Community Development (O 896-01) . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1410
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1408
1414
1345
1343
1339

Grants
2001-2001 Center Point/Student Assistance/Drug Prevention Program (O 824-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20th Anniversary Police/Community Relations District Committees — Cleveland Foundation
(O 1168-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bulletproof Vest Partnership — Bureau of Justice Assistance (O 1071-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cityworks Program — implement — community improvement groups (O 912-01) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Civic Vision 2010 Citywide Plan web site — establish — Environmental Systems Research
Systems — contract (O 1022-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Soap Box Derby Association — agreement (O 1096-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
COPS Universal Hiring Program — Dep. of Justice, Office of Community Oriented Policing
Servs. (O 1072-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eagle Avenue Bridge — Alternative Analysis Study — amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No.
951-99 (O 817-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
EMS Training Grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety (O 1074-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
EMS/Fire Training Grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety (O 1070-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Environment Division — operation — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(O 1029-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Euclid Avenue, 8911 — improvements — Acquisition and Development Loan and Grant
Agreement — Cleveland Health Education Museum (O 1067-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FEMA Assistance to Firefighters 2001 — Federal Emergency Management
Agency (O 1073-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Healthy Family Healthy Start Program — Public Health (O 648-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1444

. . . . . . . . . . . 1403
. . . . . . . . . . . 1348
. . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . 1340
. . . . . . . . . . . 1342
. . . . . . . . . . . 1415
. . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . 1337
. . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . 1343
. . . . . . . . . . . 1383
. . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . 1392

June 20, 2001

The City Record

143

Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant Program — Criminal Justice Services Agency
(O 496-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Marketing — City of Cleveland — Greater Cleveland Media Development Corporation
(O 1043-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Metropolitan Medical Response System Development Program — amend Sec. 1 of Ord. No.
1265-99 (O 657-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., 3751 — improvements — Empowerment Zone Section 108 — Economic
Development Initiative — Cleveland Restoration Society, Inc. (O 900-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rainbow Terrace Apartments — improvements — (O 1226-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
School-to-Work Program 2001 — U.S. Department of Labor (O 1042-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shaker Square Planned retail center — First Amendment — Contract No. 56087
— amend Ord. No. 2118-2000 (O 901-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Capital Appropriation Grant — projects — amend Ord. No. 79-01 (O 1077-01) . . . . . . . . . . .
State Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program (O 825-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Teen Court Program 2001 — YMCA — (O 1082-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Youth Opportunity Program 2001 — U.S. Department of Labor (O 1040-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1387
. . . . . . . . . . 1344
. . . . . . . . . . 1393
. . . . . . . . . . 1408
. . . . . . . . . . 1317
. . . . . . . . . . 1344
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1408
1346
1403
1347
1344

Health Centers
Improvement (O 1224-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1315
Interior improvements (F 1191-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
Health Department
2001-2001 Center Point/Student Assistance/Drug Prevention Program — grant
(O 824-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
AIDS-related services — Community Development (O 1027-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
AIDS-related services (O 1030-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Environment Division — operation — grant — Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(O 1029-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Health centers — improvement (O 1224-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Health Centers — interior improvements (F 1191-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Healthy Family Healthy Start Program — grant (O 648-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hepatitis vaccinations — services — Port Control (O 1015-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Metropolitan Medical Response System Development Program — grant — amend Sec. 1 of
No. 1265-99 (O 657-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Special revenue subfund — food establishments — city — establish (O 1028-01) . . . . . . . . . .
State Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program — grant (O 825-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transfer — General Fund — Community Development (O 896-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont Health Center Masonry Restoration (F 1190-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1403
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....
Ord.
.....
.....
.....
.....
.....

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1343
1315
1306
1392
1342

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1393
1343
1403
1339
1306

Health Museum
Euclid Avenue, 8911 — improvements — Acquisition and Development Loan and Grant
Agreement (O 1067-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1383
Hermes Race Systems
Cleveland Corporate Challenge — permit (O 1252-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326
Holidays
Wreaths 102 — Westown Community Development Corporation (O 1171-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1416
Homeless
Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Office of Homeless Services - implementation - amend Ord. No.
1876-2000 (O 907-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
House of Corrections
Mercantile Road, 23600 — Unit J — lease property (O 834-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1338
Housing
Cleveland Housing Network — low income units — acquisition, rehabilitation
or construction (O 909-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Action to Support Housing (CASH) — rehabilitation — new
construction (O 836-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act — (the “Plan”) — affordable
(O 798-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Unlawful discriminatory conduct — amend Secs. 665.02, 665.04, 665.051, 665.09 and 665.99
(O 1081-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1445

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1404
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347

The City Record

144

June 20, 2001

Housing Rehabilitation Program
Federal HOME Program funds (O 739-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
Insurance
Medical, life and group dental — city employees — coverage — extend (O 1065-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345
Land Reutilization Program
Broadway and Morgana Ave. — The Boys and Girls Club of Cleveland (O 1165-01)
Clark Ave. — Cudell Improvement, Inc. (O 1179-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 174th St. — Amistad Development Corporation (O 1036-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 59th & E. 57th Sts. — Burtem, Bell, Carr Development Incorporated (O 712-01). .
E. 61st St. — scattered sites — Burten, Bell, Carr Development, Inc. (O 507-01) . . . .
E. 90th St. — Orca House, Inc. (O 704-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lexington, Quinby and Linwood Avenues — Famicos Foundation (O 1174-01) . . . . . .
Longmead Ave., 12713 — Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation (O 306-01) . . . . .
Milligan Ave., 12923 — Bellaire-Puritas Development Corporation (O 509-01) . . . . . . .
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation — scattered sites (O 510-01) . .
Olivet Ave. — Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity, Inc. (O 1054-01) . . . . . . . . . .
Sagamore Ave. — Steven Broadnax — Karla Broadnax (O 1175-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave. — Lawrence Hunt (O 612-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave. properties — Refreshing Spring Baptist Ministries Church
(O 1010-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Ave., 9113 — Center for Families and Children (O 828-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 58th St. — Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization (O 1261-01)
W. 99th St. — Mathile Saad (O 1178-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1348
. 1420
. 1344
. 1336
. 1388
. 1336
. 1417
. 1385
. 1389
. 1389
. 1345
. 1418
. 1336

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1334
1337
1328
1420

Landmark Commission
Guardian Trust Bank Building - Lorain - West 117th Street Branch (O 1211-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1313
Leases
Aspinwall Ave., 13715 — American Municipal Power-Ohio, Inc. (O 543-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
Radiant Energy Services — aircraft deicing facility (O 1221-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1315
Libraries
Cleveland Public Library — funding — reconsider —- Library Recovery Amendment —
support (R 1099-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1355
Liquor Permits
Bridge Ave., 5718 — new (F 1192-01) . . . . . . . .
Detroit Ave., 2814 — transfer (F 1195-01) . . . .
E. 102nd St., 584 — transfer (F 1194-01) . . . . .
E. 12th St., 1701 — transfer (F 1197-01). . . . . .
Fleet Ave., 6506 — transfer (R 1182-01). . . . . .
Harvard Ave., 13800 — transfer (F 1196-01) . .
Lorain Ave., 12524 — transfer (F 1199-01) . . .
Shaker Square, 13120 — transfer (R 1181-01) .
Warner Rd., 4324 - transfer (F 1193-01) . . . . . .
W. 25th St., 1871 — transfer (F 1198-01) . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1306
1306
1306
1306
1381
1306
1306
1380
1306
1306

Loans
Euclid Ave., 8911 — improvements — Acquisition and Development Loan and Grant Agreement
— Cleveland Health Education Museum (O 1067-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1383
Mayor’s Appointment Committee
Cintron, Nelson Councilman — — Temporary Chairman (F 1183-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1305
Molina, Francisco — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority — approved
(F 402-01-A). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1305
Ruzic, Mark M.J. — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority — approved
(F 10-01-A) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1305
Mayor’s Appointments
Molina, Francisco — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority — approved
(F 402-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1305
Ruzic, Mark M.J. — Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority — approved
(F 10-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1305

1446

June 20, 2001

The City Record

145

Memoranda of Understanding
City’s community development programs — enter into or amend — contracts
(O 840-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
Social service programs — recreation activities — Community Development and other City
departments (O 914-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
Metro Health Medical Center
AIDS/HIV outreach — Ward 5 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 826-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
Moral Claims
Payment (O 1057-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345
Motor Vehicle Maintenance Division (MVM)
Tire recapping (O 816-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Neighborhood Equity Funds
A Cultural Exchange — after school literacy — Ward 2,4 (O 1228-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A Cultural Exchange — after-school literacy project — 50 children in Ward 6 — Ward 6
(O 166-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Boys and Girls Club - Positive Place for Kids program — Ward 12 (O 1241-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Area Development Corp. — yard lamps — Hulda Avenue — Ward 6 (O 1212-01) . . . .
EBC Fery Dev. Corp. — Community Outreach Program — Ward 10 (O 1218-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Esperenza, Inc. — educational programming — Ward 14 (O 815-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Esperenza, Inc. — relocation — programmatic — Ward 17 (O 832-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard School Senior Apartments project — amend Ord. 1083-2000 — Ward
12 (O 1240-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kamm’s Corner Development Corporation — amend Ord. No. 1737-2000 — Ward 21
(O 1220-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MetroHealth — AIDS/HIV outreach — Ward 5 (O 826-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgana Little League — provide recreational services — Ward 12 (O 1242-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend Ord. 113-2000 (O 1235-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend Ord. 1137-2000 (O 1237-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend Ord. 1715-99 (O 1213-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend Ord. 606-2000 (O 1227-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend Ord. 1135-2000 (O 1230-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service Center — Ninth Annual African American Family Day Picnic
— Ward 3 (O 1239-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appropriating funds (O 1139-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency — Big Creek Environmental Study
— amend Ord. No. 2163-2000 — Ward 15 (O 895-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Canal Corridor — History Hike programs — Ward 15 (O 1091-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old Brooklyn Community Development Corp. — yard lamps — Ward 15 (O 1223-01). . . . . . . . . .
Parkworks — Adult Basic Landscaping Training Program — Ward 8 (O 1233-01) . . . . . . . . . . .
Shaker Square Area Dev. Corp. — Fairwood Homeward Program Write-down Fund — Ward
6 (O 886-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sister Servants of Mary — secular outreach programs — Ward 12 (O 1243-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Arts Festival — Ward 13 (O 1215-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Dev. Assoc. — festival — Ward 13 (O 808-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Touchstone Management — Hilltop Estates improvements — Ward 10 (O 818-01) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tremont West Development Corporation — HOPE VI — amend Ord. No. 809-01
— Ward 13(O 1216-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Settlement — hunger program — Ward 12 (O 1244-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ward19.com Program — Westown Community Dev., Corp. — Ward 19 (O 644-01) . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . 1318
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1384
. 1321
. 1313
. 1314
. 1337
. 1338

. . . . . . . . . . 1321
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1314
1337
1321
1320
1320
1313
1318
1319

. . . . . . . . . . 1321
. . . . . . . . . . 1348
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1408
1413
1315
1319

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1338
1322
1313
1337

. . . . . . . . . . 1412
. . . . . . . . . . 1337
. . . . . . . . . . 1314
. . . . . . . . . . 1322
. . . . . . . . . . 1336

Ohio Department of Natural Resources
Civilian Conservation Corps Cleveland Camp — declare default (R 662-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1356
Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT)
Eagle Avenue Bridge — Alternative Analysis Study — grant — amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No.
951-99 (O 817-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
ODOT District 12 Construction Projects, Year 2000 (F 1188-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306

1447

The City Record

146

June 20, 2001

Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
Environment Division — operation — grant (O 1029-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
Old Brooklyn Community Development Corporation
Yard lamps — Ward 15 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1223-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1315
Parks
Barkwill Park — landscaping and maintenance (O 1023-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Eliot Park — name — change (O 1019-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
League Park — improvement (O 1138-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
Parks Maintenance Division
Trees — plant — various locations (O 1078-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
Parks, Recreation and Properties Department
Barkwill Park — landscaping and maintenance (O 1023-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave., 6564-6566 — sale — amend the title and Sect. 2 of Ord.
No. 1007-2000 (O 848-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City Hall — carpet — various locations — replace (O 1076-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Civilian Conservation Corps Cleveland Camp — Ohio Department of Natural Resources
— declare default (R 662-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Soap Box Derby Association — grant agreement (O 1096-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Collinwood Town Center — improvement (O 503-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elevators and escalators — service and maintain — Convention Center and Stadium
(O 621-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eliot Park — name — change (O 1019-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
General Fund — transfer — Division of Park Maintenance (O 1095-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
League Park — improvement (O 1138-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lease Agreement — Contract No. 30237 — Terminate — Board of Education (O 927-01) . . . .
Longwood Apartments — redevelopment — Community Development, Public Service,
Public Utilities Departments (O 898-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Luke Easter Park — renovations — ParkWorks (O 847-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Madison Ave. — West Boulevard — landscape — Amend Ord. No. 668-2000 (O 1268-01) . . . . .
McGowan Park, Crossburn Park, Jefferson Park & Maplewood Ball Diamond Complex
— improvement (O 504-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neff Park — improvement (O 501-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northeast Shores Development Corporation — agreement — maintain and adopt — real
estate (O 502-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Clean Program — Community Development Block Grant funds (O 738-01) . . . . . . . . . .
Social service programs — recreation activities — Community Development and other City
departments (O 914-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Capital Appropriation Grant — projects — amend Ord. No. 79-01 (O 1077-01) . . . . . . . . .
Trees — plant — various locations (O 1078-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Woodland Recreation Center — name — change (O 1018-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Year XXVII Community Development Block Grant — improvement (O 904-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Youth Developmental Basketball League — City-wide athletic program (O 1026-01) . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1338
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1356
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1415
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1335
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1392
1342
1414
1347
1341

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1340
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1406
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1332
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1336
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1335
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1388
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1399
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1340
. 1346
. 1346
. 1342
. 1340
. 1343

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1328
1327
1325
1413

American Heart Walk (O 1250-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Browns Run (O 1251-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Corporate Challenge (O 1252-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CTF Hotels & Resorts — new facades for parking garage and ballroom (O 358-01) . . . . . . . . . . .
Diamond Carriage Service (O 1172-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Directional Signs (15) — Shaker Square of Ohio LLC (O 713-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holiday Wreaths 102 — Westown Community Development Corporation (O 1171-01) . . . . . . . . . . .
Mr. William McReynolds — fence (O 1238-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ray Fogg Building Methods, Inc — Oatey Company’s distribution complex center
(O 929-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rock and Roll Triathlon (O 1253-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Mark’s Foot Race (O 1090-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Hospitals of Cleveland — right-of-way — shoring, sheeting, & tie-backs
(O 1098-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water’s Edge Condominiums Phase 2 — Euclid Creek Development, Ltd. — Lakeport Road —
encroachment (O 846-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1326
1326
1326
1386
1416
1396
1416
1320

Peddlers
Campbell, Migel (Ward 1) (O 1260-01) . .
Konopinski, Joseph A. — (Ward 14) (O
Lillard, Anita (Ward 6) (O 1249-01) . . . .
Taylor, Howard (Ward 5) (O 1092-01) . .

........
1256-01)
........
........

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

Permits

1448

. . . . . . . . . 1341
. . . . . . . . . 1326
. . . . . . . . . 1413
. . . . . . . . . 1415
. . . . . . . . . 1338

June 20, 2001

The City Record

147

Personnel Department
Empowerment Zone Labor Force Development Program — implementation
Development (O 910-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Medical, life and group dental insurance — city employees — coverage —
extend (O 1065-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pre-employment Background check (O 918-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Transition services — provide (O 1017-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Workforce Investment Act Programs — administration (O 921-01) . . . . . . . . .
Youth Opportunity Program 2001 — grant — U.S. Department of Labor (O

— Economic
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1409
........
........
........
........
1040-01)

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1345
1341
1342
1341
1344

P.O.
.....
.....
.....
.....

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1346
1330
1385
1348

Police Division
Cielec, Emil P.O. — O’Malley, Michael Lt. — Lents, Edward
— retirement — extend (O 1069-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equipment — vehicles (O 1265-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grade promotional examinations - consultants (O 313-01) . . .
Prisoner meals (O 1163-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Lt. — Smith,
.............
.............
.............
.............

Thomas,
.........
.........
.........
.........

Port Control Department
Air BP — easement rights — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 214-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1381
Air conditioning systems — maintain (O 1006-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341
Ameritech — easement rights — Trust Indenture — Chase Manhattan Trust Company,
National Association (O 1961-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1384
Automatic doors — maintain (O 1014-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company — two easements — Cleveland Hopkins
International Airport (O 703-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1393
Concourse C — apron replacement (O 823-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
Contamination — soil — prevention (O 1122-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
Data network — amend the title of Ordinance No. 468-2000 (O 822-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402
Erosion and sediment control specialist (O 1119-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
Fiscal Year 2001 — annual audits — professional services (O 1008-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Fuel farm — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — amend Ord. No. 641-01
(O 1266-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1331
Fuel farm — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport — employ professional consultants
(O 641-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Ground water — collection, sampling, transportation and disposal (O 1123-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
Hepatitis vaccinations — services (O 1015-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Long Term Parking Garage structure — constructing or repairing and upgrading
— Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 915-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1382
Maintenance vehicles and equipment — maintain (O 1003-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341
North fuel farm with truck rack for into-plane fueling — constructing (O 919-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1383
North Terminal Expansion — baggage claim devices 1 and 2 — replace baggage claim
devices 3, 4, 5, and 6 — upgrade of interior mechanical and electrical systems —
new offices and restrooms — improvement of constructing (O 920-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334
Parsons Infrastructure and Technology, Inc. — expansion — Contract — amend
(O 1005-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341
Plumbing systems - maintenance (O 1016-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Radiant Energy Services — aircraft deicing facility (O 1221-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1315
Reduntant electrical source — installation — amend Sec. 4 of Ord. No. 1268-97
(O 1004-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341
Remediating soil — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport (O 1126-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
Roofing systems — repair (O 1012-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Snow removal equipment — rent (O 1007-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1341
Soils analysis — environmental modeling — employ consultants (O 1118-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
Stormwater pollution prevention plans (O 1125-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1347
Surveyors — employ (O 1210-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1312
Ullrich Family Limited Partnership — Lease Agreement (O 1267-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1331
Upper level roadway — removing and replacing — Cleveland Hopkins International Airport
(O 918-2000). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1333
West Concourse apron — rehabilitating — alterations and modifications in Contract No.
48468 — Anthony Allega Cement Contractors, Inc. (O 1797-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334
Purchases and Supplies Division
Carnegie Ave., 4310 — sell — ITX Corporation (O 1034-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
W. 44th St., 1787 — purchase (O 1217-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1314
Recreation Centers
Woodland Recreation Center — name — change (O 1018-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342

1449

The City Record

148

June 20, 2001

Resolutions - Miscellaneous
Adelphia’s System Upgrade Plan — approved (R 1269-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Civilian Conservation Corps Cleveland Camp — Ohio Department of Natural Resources
— declare default (R 662-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Public Library — funding — reconsider —- Library Recovery Amendment —
support (R 1099-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cuyahoga County Board of Elections — commendation — evaluate, improve voting procedures
(R 1103-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Educational system — support — state position (R 1272-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Elective Alternative Regulation Plan — oppose — PUCO — additional — hearing —
request (R 1101-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Government Lien Service — investigation (R 1245-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moratorium — extension — Confined Disposal Facility — urge (R 1271-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
NABET/CWA Local 42 — goals — support (R 1180-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ohio Commission on African- American Males — support (R 1102-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pula City, Istrian Country, Republic of Croatia — sister relationship — establish
(R 1100-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Schedule — summer meetings (R 1270-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stopping for school buses — Urging the Cleveland Police — enforce Section 431.38
of Codified Ordinances (R 385-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tariff agreement — Dominion East Ohio — Public Utilities Commission of Ohio — Payment
and Billing Explanation Center (R 384-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . 1332
. . . . . . . . 1356
. . . . . . . . 1355
. . . . . . . . 1380
. . . . . . . . 1333
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1379
1322
1332
1380
1379

. . . . . . . . 1379
. . . . . . . . 1332
. . . . . . . . 1356
. . . . . . . . 1355

Retirement
Cielec, Emil P.O. — O’Malley, Michael Lt. — Lents, Edward Lt. — Smith, Thomas, P.O.
— extend (O 1069-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
Right-of-Way
CTF Hotels & Resorts — permit — new facades for parking garage and ballroom
(O 358-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mr. William McReynolds — permit — fence (O 1238-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Hospitals of Cleveland — shoring, sheeting, & tie-backs (O 1098-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water’s Edge Condominiums Phase 2 — Euclid Creek Development, Ltd. — Lakeport Road —
permit — encroachment (O 846-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 1386
. . . . . . . . . 1320
. . . . . . . . . 1415
. . . . . . . . . 1338

Safety Department
Bulletproof Vest Partnership — grant — Bureau of Justice Assistance (O 1071-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
Cielec, Emil P.O. — O’Malley, Michael Lt. — Lents, Edward Lt. — Smith, Thomas, P.O.
— retirement — extend (O 1069-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
COPS Universal Hiring Program — grant — Dep. of Justice, Office of Community Oriented
Policing Servs. (O 1072-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
EMS Training Grant — grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety (O 1074-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
EMS/Fire Training Grant — grant — Ohio Department of Public Safety (O 1070-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
EMT supervisor examination — job analysis — professional services — Division of
Emergency Medical Services (O 314-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1386
Equipment — vehicles — Division of Police (O 1265-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1330
FEMA Assistance to Firefighters 2001 — grant — Federal Emergency Management Agency
(O 1073-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
Grade promotional examinations — consultants — Division of Police (O 313-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant Program — grant — Criminal Justice
Services Agency (O 496-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1387
Prisoner meals (O 1163-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1348
Promotional examinations — Civil Service Commission — develop and administer
(O 290-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1385
Safety boat — staff and operate (O 213-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1384-V
Salaries
Compensation — amend Sec. 43 of Ord. No. 2274-2000 (O 1055-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345
Salvation Army
Lakeside Ave., 2100 — redevelopment (O 1021-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1342
Schools
Stopping for school buses - Urge — Cleveland Police - Sec. 431.38 (R 385-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1356
Service Department
Central Ave. — rehabilitation (O 1032-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1343
Crack sealing material — Ord. No. 610-01 (O 1255-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1327

1450

June 20, 2001

The City Record

149

CTF Hotels & Resorts — permit — new facades for parking garage and ballroom
(O 358-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 75th St. — rename — Bilal Street (O 1214-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eagle Avenue Bridge — Alternative Analysis Study — grant — amend Sect. 2 of Ord. No.
951-99 (O 817-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eagle Avenue Bridge/West 3rd Street ramp — alterations and modifications — Contract No.
56174 — Perk Company, Inc. (O 493-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
League Park — improvement (O 1138-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Longwood Apartments — redevelopment — Community Development, Public Service,
Parks, Recreation and Properties, Public Utilities Departments (O 898-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mr. William McReynolds — permit — fence (O 1238-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ray Fogg Building Methods, Inc — permit — Oatey Company’s distribution complex center
(O 929-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
State Road rehabilitation — amend Ord. No. 730-2000 (O 916-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tower City Riverview Company — West 3rd Street — entrance/exit drive (O 736-01) . . . . . . . . .
W. 31st St. — between Hancock Ave. & Keene Crt. — public improvement (O 609-01) . . . . . . . . .
W. 32nd St. — between Walbrook Ave. & Oak Park Ave. — rehabilitation (O 742-01) . . . . . . . . .
W. 44th St. Bridge — rehabilitation — City of Cleveland’s payment — amend Sect. 1 of
Ord. No. 137-96 (O 611-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water’s Edge Condominiums Phase 2 — Euclid Creek Development, Ltd. — Lakeport Road —
permit — encroachment (O 846-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th St. — improve — sidewalk — tree pockets (O 933-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Year XXVII Community Development Block Grant — improvement (O 904-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 1386
. . . . . . . . . 1313
. . . . . . . . . 1337
. . . . . . . . . 1387
. . . . . . . . . 1347
. . . . . . . . . 1340
. . . . . . . . . 1320
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1341
1409
1397
1391
1400

. . . . . . . . . 1391
. . . . . . . . . 1338
. . . . . . . . . 1411
. . . . . . . . . 1340

Sewers
East 143rd Street — rehabilitate (O 831-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Erwin Avenue — rehabilitate (O 852-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairway Drive area — rehabilitate (O 821-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jesse Avenue — improvement (O 1053-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kadel Avenue — rehabilitation (O 799-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Melbourne Avenue - rehabilitate (O 820-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Naples Avenue — rehabilitate (O 830-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ostend Avenue — rehabilitate (O 845-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Constructing and installing replacement — various locations (O 653-01) .
Westpark & Lydian Roads — rehabilitating — amend Ord. No. 1000-2000
Westpark and Lydian Roads — amend Ord. No. 1000-2000 (O 1222-01) . . .

...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
(O
...

........
........
........
........
........
........
........
........
........
707-01) .
........

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1404
1406
1402
1345
1401
1402
1404
1406
1393
1395
1315

Sidewalks
Endora Avenue assessment — repair (O 1246-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1322
W. 32nd St. and Darwin Ave. assessment — repair (O 1247-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1324
Signs
Billboards — amend Sect. 350.10 — airport and lakefront public land
protective districts — new Sect. 341.021 — W. 11 St. — change districts of lands
(O 452-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1348
Directional Signs (15) — permit — Shaker Square of Ohio LLC (O 713-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396
Stadium
Elevators and escalators — service and maintain — Convention Center (O 621-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1392
Statement of Work Acceptance
Health Centers — interior improvements (F 1191-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
Tremont Health Center Masonry Restoration (F 1190-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
Street Vacation
Engle Ct., SE; Woolen Ct., SE; and Recreation Ct.,
First Unnamed Alley — Ward 6 (O 735-01) . . . . . . .
Industrial parkway S.W. — intention (R 941-01) . .
Marquette St., N. E. (O 806-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Overlook Ave., S. E. (O 805-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

SE (R
.......
.......
.......
.......

1169-01)
........
........
........
........

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1349
1397
1349
1337
1401

Streets - Name
E. 75th St. — rename — Bilal Street (O 1214-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1313
Taxation Division
Income tax statements — manufacture, print, encode, sort and mail (O 1066-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345
Wage and tax statements 2000 — convert (O 744-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400

1451

The City Record

150

June 20, 2001

Trees
Plant, remove, replace, trim, create or excavate — blight and
(O 920-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Plant — various locations (O 1078-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th St. — improve — sidewalk — pockets (O 933-01) .

disease shades
...............
...............
...............

trees
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1410
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1346
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1411

Tremont West Development Corporation
HOPE VI — amend Ord. No. 809-01 — Ward 13 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1216-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1314
Utilities Department
Aspinwall Ave., 13715 — lease property — American Municipal Power-Ohio, Inc.
(O 543-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dictaphone Corporation — equipment — Division of Water (O 842-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 143rd Street sewer — rehabilitate (O 831-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eastside Service Center — operation — Cleveland Public Power (O 843-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engineering, environmental, safety, forensic services (O 1232-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Erwin Avenue sewer — rehabilitate (O 852-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairway Drive area sewer — rehabilitate (O 821-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Garrett A. Morgan Water Treatment Plant — improvement — amend Ord. No. 817-2000
(O 1262-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gas rate — gas supplier — negotiate — contract (O 841-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jesse Avenue sewer — improvement (O 1053-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kadel Avenue sewer — rehabilitation (O 799-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Longwood Apartments — redevelopment — Community Development, Public Service,
Parks, Recreation and Properties, Public Utilities Departments (O 898-01) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Melbourne Avenue sewer - rehabilitate (O 820-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Naples Avenue sewer — rehabilitate (O 830-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ostend Avenue sewer — rehabilitate (O 845-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sewers — constructing and installing replacement — various locations (O 653-01) . . . . . . . .
Westpark & Lydian Roads — rehabilitating sewers — amend Sec. 3 of Ord. No. 1000-2000
(O 707-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Year XXVII Community Development Block Grant — improvement (O 904-01) . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.

. 1391
. 1405
. 1404
. 1405
. 1319
. 1406
. 1402

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. 1330
. 1338
. 1345
. 1401

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1340
1402
1404
1406
1393

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1395
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1340

Ward 01
Campbell, Migel (Ward 1) — peddling allowed (O 1260-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 174th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Amistad Development Corporation
(O 1036-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East 143rd Street sewer — rehabilitate (O 831-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard Ave., 13800 — liquor permit — transfer (F 1196-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Naples Avenue sewer — rehabilitate (O 830-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Thomas, Carl B. Sr. — condolence (R 1201-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1328
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

. 1344
. 1404
. 1306
. 1404
. 1306

Ward 02
A Cultural Exchange — after school literacy — Ward 2,4 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1228-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jesse Avenue sewer — improvement (O 1053-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mystic Knights — banner — annual event (O 1097-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1318
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1345
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1415
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412

Ward 03
Bradley, Pitzer — condolence (R 1202-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Luke Easter Park — renovations — ParkWorks (O 847-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Murtis H. Taylor Multi-Service Center — Ninth Annual African American Family Day
— Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1239-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1406
Picnic
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1321
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412

Ward 04
A Cultural Exchange — after school literacy — Ward 2,4 Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1228-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Directional Signs (15) — permit — Shaker Square of Ohio LLC (O 713-01) . . . . . . . . . . . .
God’s House of Prayer and Deliverance — banners — special event (O 1093-01) . . . . . . .
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend Ord. 606-2000 (O 1227-01) . . . . . . . .
Shaker Square Planned retail center — First Amendment — Contract No. 56087
— amend Ord. No. 2118-2000 (O 901-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shaker Square, 13120 — liquor permit — transfer (R 1181-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1452

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1318
1396
1414
1318

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1380
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412

June 20, 2001

The City Record

151

Ward 05
Carnegie Ave., 4310 — sell — ITX Corporation (O 1034-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave. — rehabilitation (O 1032-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Central Ave., 7210 — Empowerment Zone Business Opportunity — Stanley Jackson
(O 1035-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 40th St. — between Community College Avenue, S.E. — Planned Unit Development project
(O 748-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 59th & E. 57th Sts. — Land Reutilization Program — Burtem, Bell, Carr Development
Incorporated (O 712-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 61st St. — scattered sites — Land Reutilization Program — Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc. (O 507-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Longwood Apartments — redevelopment — Community Development, Public Service,
Parks, Recreation and Properties, Public Utilities Departments (O 898-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MetroHealth — AIDS/HIV outreach — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 826-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prospect Ave., 3751 — improvements — Empowerment Zone Section 108 — Economic
Development Initiative — Cleveland Restoration Society, Inc. (O 900-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rainbow Terrace Apartments — improvements — grant (O 1226-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Taylor, Howard - peddler (O 1092-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Union Ave., 9113 — Land Reutilization Program — Center for Families and Children
(O 828-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
YMCA — banners (O 1225-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . 1343
. . . . . . . . . 1343
. . . . . . . . . 1344
. . . . . . . . . 1349
. . . . . . . . . 1336
. . . . . . . . . 1388
. . . . . . . . . 1340
. . . . . . . . . 1337
. . . . . . . . . 1408
. . . . . . . . . 1317
. . . . . . . . . 1413
. . . . . . . . . 1412
. . . . . . . . . 1337
. . . . . . . . . 1316

Ward 06
A Cultural Exchange — after-school literacy project — 50 children —Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 166-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Buckeye Area Development Corp. — yard lamps — Hulda Avenue — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1212-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 75th St. — rename — Bilal Street (O 1214-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 90th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Orca House, Inc. (O 704-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eco. Dev. Initiative Grant and Title XX Grant funds — Empowerment Zone Program —
expenditure — amend Ord. No. 865-2000 (O 889-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
First Unnamed Alley — vacate (O 735-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
God’s House of Prayer and Deliverance — banners — special event (O 1093-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lillard, Anita (Ward 6) — peddling allowed (O 1249-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend Ord. 1715-99 (O 1213-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Overlook Ave., S. E. — vacate (O 805-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quark Biotech, Inc. — Empowerment Zone Section 108 loans — Initiative Grant Agreements
— 10265 Carnegie Ave. (O 888-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Quark Biotech, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement — 10265 Carnegie Avenue.
(O 887-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shaker Square Area Dev. Corp. — Fairwood Homeward Program Write-down Fund — Ward
6 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 886-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ward 6 Multi-Cultural Community Festival — banner (O 1248-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . 1384
. . . . . 1313
. . . . . 1313
. . . . . 1336
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.

1407
1397
1414
1325
1313
1401

. . . . . 1407
. . . . . 1406
. . . . . 1338
. . . . . 1412
. . . . . 1325

Ward 07
E. 82nd St., 1906 — 7201 Wade Park Ave. — Eliza Bryant Center — Empowerment Zone
Section 108 — Grant Agreement (O 714-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lexington, Quinby and Linwood Avenues — Land Reutilization Program — Famicos Foundation
(O 1174-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sagamore Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Steven Broadnax — Karla
Broadnax (O 1175-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . 1396
. . . . . . 1417
. . . . . . 1418
. . . . . . 1412

Ward 08
Browne, Walter W. — condolence (R 1200-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Bridge Builders — congratulations (R 1206-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 102nd St., 584 — liquor permit — transfer (F 1194-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glenville Community’s Youth Opportunity Center — Grand Opening — Banners
(O 1176-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Hayes, Hunter, Johnson and Gibson Family Reunion — congratulations (R 1207-01) . . . . . . . .
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend Ord. 113-2000 (O 1235-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Olivet Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Greater Cleveland Habitat for Humanity, Inc.
(O 1054-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ostend Avenue sewer — rehabilitate (O 845-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parkworks — Adult Basic Landscaping Training Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1233-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1453

. . . . . . . . . . . 1306
. . . . . . . . . . . 1306
. . . . . . . . . . . 1306
. . . . . . . . . . . 1419
. . . . . . . . . . . 1306
. . . . . . . . . . . 1320
. . . . . . . . . . . 1345
. . . . . . . . . . . 1406
. . . . . . . . . . . 1319
. . . . . . . . . . . 1412

The City Record

152

June 20, 2001

Ward 09
Northeastern Neighborhood Development Corporation — scattered sites — Land
Reutilization Program (O 510-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Superior Ave. properties — Land Reutilization Program — Refreshing Spring Baptist
Ministries Church (O 1010-2000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Hospitals of Cleveland — right-of-way — shoring, sheeting, & tie-backs
(O 1098-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1389
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1334
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1415

Ward 10
Aspinwall Ave., 13715 — lease property — American Municipal Power-Ohio, Inc.
(O 543-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
EBC Fery Dev. Corp. — Community Outreach Program — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1218-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Endora Avenue assessment — sidewalks — repair (O 1246-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Taylor, Willa Hemmons Ph.D. — congratulations (R 1209-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Temmison, Collier, Cook and Ellsberry Family Reunion — congratulations (R 1208-01). . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Touchstone Management — Hilltop Estates improvements — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 818-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 32nd St. and Darwin Ave. assessment — sidewalks — repair (O 1247-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1314
1322
1306
1306

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1324

Ward 11
Collinwood Town Center — improvement (O 503-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mortgage loan — grant assistance program — amend Ord. 1137-2000 (O 1237-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mr. William McReynolds — permit — fence (O 1238-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Neff Park — improvement (O 501-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Northeast Shores Development Corporation — agreement — maintain and adopt — real
estate (O 502-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 32nd St. and Darwin Ave. assessment — sidewalks — repair (O 1247-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Water’s Edge Condominiums Phase 2 — Euclid Creek Development, Ltd. — Lakeport Road —
permit — encroachment (O 846-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1335
1320
1320
1335

. . . . . . . . . 1388
. . . . . . . . . 1412
. . . . . . . . . 1324
. . . . . . . . . 1338

Ward 12
Boys and Girls Club - Positive Place for Kids program — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1241-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway and Morgana Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — The Boys and Girls Club
of Cleveland (O 1165-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Broadway Ave., 6564-6566 — sale — amend Ord. No. 1007-2000 (O 848-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Engle Ct., SE; Woolen Ct., SE; and Recreation Ct., SE — vacate (R 1169-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fleet Ave., 6506 — liquor permit — transfer (R 1182-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Harvard School Senior Apartments project — amend Ord. 1083-2000 — Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 1240-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jezeski, Henry A. (Rev.) — condolence (R 1203-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgana Little League — provide recreational services — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1242-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sister Servants of Mary — secular outreach programs — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1243-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
University Settlement — hunger program — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1244-01) . . . . . .
Warner Rd., 4324 - transfer (F 1193-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1321
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1348
1338
1349
1381

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1321
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1321
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1322
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1412
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1322
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1306

Ward 13
American Heart Walk — permit (O 1250-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Billboards — amend Sect. 350.10 — airport and lakefront public land
protective districts — new Sect. 341.021 — W. 11 St. — change districts of lands
(O 452-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Browns Run — permit (O 1251-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cleveland Corporate Challenge — permit (O 1252-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CTF Hotels & Resorts — permit — new facades for parking garage and ballroom
(O 358-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Diamond Carriage Service — permit (O 1172-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
E. 12th St., 1701 — liquor permit — transfer (F 1197-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Eagle Avenue Bridge/West 3rd Street ramp — alterations and modifications — Contract
56174 — Perk Company, Inc. (O 493-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grace Hospital — banners — Hospital’s Health Fair (O 1257-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lakeside Ave., 2100 — redevelopment — Salvation Army (O 1021-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1454

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1348
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326
....
....
....
No.
....
....
....

. . . . . . . . . . 1386
. . . . . . . . . . 1416
. . . . . . . . . . 1306
. . . . . . . . . . 1387
. . . . . . . . . . 1327
. . . . . . . . . . 1342

June 20, 2001

The City Record

153

Marquette St., N. E. — vacate (O 806-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parents and Children for Equality (PACE) — banners — Both Parents are Important
(O 1088-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pedestrian barriers — Cuyahoga and Old Rivers — new Section 3123.10 (O 812-01) . . . . .
Rock and Roll Triathlon — permit (O 1253-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Arts Festival — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1215-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Superior Neighborhood Dev. Assoc. — festival — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 808-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair/Superior Neighborhood Development Association — banners — Neighborhood
Festival (O 1173-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tower City Riverview Company — West 3rd Street — entrance/exit drive (O 736-01) . . .
Tremont West Development Corporation — HOPE VI — amend Ord. No. 809-01 — Ward
Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1216-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West St., 955 — machinery — Flats Realty, LTD. (O 811-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Yambor, Sandy — Congratulations (R 1204-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1326
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1313
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1337
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1416
...
...
13
...
...
...

. . . . . . . . . . . . 1412
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1397
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1314
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1401
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1306

Ward 14
3500 Group, Ltd. — 3500 Lorain Ave. — Neighborhood Development
Investment Fund (O 1025-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Community Reinvestment Area — establish — amend Ord. No. 1776-A-90 (O 1089-01) . . . . .
Detroit Ave., 2814 — liquor permit — transfer (F 1195-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Esperenza, Inc. — educational programming — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 815-01) . .
Grace Hospital — banners — Hospital’s Health Fair (O 1257-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Konopinski, Joseph A. — (Ward 14) — peddling allowed (O 1256-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sagrada Familia Church — banner — annual festival (O 1258-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Clair Ave., — Land Reutilization Program — Lawrence Hunt (O 612-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 25th St., 1871 — liquor permit — transfer (F 1198-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 31st St. — between Hancock Ave. & Keene Crt. — public improvement (O 609-01) . . . .
W. 44th St. Bridge — rehabilitation — City of Cleveland’s payment — amend Sect. 1 of
Ord. No. 137-96 (O 611-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 44th St., 1787 — purchase (O 1217-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th - Lorain Community Development Plan — amendments (O 892-01) . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th - Lorain Community Development Plan — Fries & Schuele, Ltd — agreement
(O 893-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 25th-Lorain Community Development Plan — appropriate — mixed-use development
(R 940-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1343
1413
1306
1337
1327
1327
1327
1336
1306
1391

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1391
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1314
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1339
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1349

Ward 15
Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency — Big Creek Environmental Study
— amend Ord. No. 2163-2000 — Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 895-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1408
Ohio Canal Corridor — History Hike programs — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1091-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1413
Old Brooklyn Community Development Corp. — yard lamps — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 1223-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1315
Ward 16
State Road rehabilitation — amend Ord. No. 730-2000 (O 916-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1409
W. 32nd St. — between Walbrook Ave. & Oak Park Ave. — rehabilitation (O 742-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1400
W. 32nd St. and Darwin Ave. assessment — sidewalks — repair (O 1247-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1324
Ward 17
Bridge Ave., 5718 — liquor permit — new (F 1192-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Esperenza, Inc. — relocation — programmatic — Neighborhood Equity Funds
(O 832-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rock and Roll Triathlon — permit (O 1253-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sagrada Familia Church — banner — annual festival (O 1258-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sagrada Familia Church — banners — Church Festival (O 1094-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W. 58th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Detroit Shoreway Community Development
Organization (O 1261-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1306
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

. 1338
. 1326
. 1327
. 1414

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1328

Ward 18
Clark Ave. — Land Reutilization Program — Cudell Improvement, Inc. (O 1179-01) . . .
Jasper Ave., 10321 — improvements — A-1 Affordable Plumbing, Inc. (O 1080-01) . . . . .
Madison Ave. — West Boulevard — landscape — Amend Ord. No. 668-2000 (O 1268-01)
W. 99th St. — Land Reutilization Program — Mathile Saad (O 1178-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West 117th St. — improve — sidewalk — tree pockets (O 933-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1455

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.
.

1420
1346
1332
1420
1411

The City Record

154

June 20, 2001

Ward 19
Guardian Trust Bank Building - Lorain - West 117th Street Branch — Landmark
(O 1211-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holiday Wreaths 102 — Westown Community Development Corporation (O 1171-01) . . .
Kadel Avenue sewer — rehabilitation (O 799-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lorain Ave., 12524 — liquor permit — transfer (F 1199-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ward19.com Program — Westown Community Dev., Corp. — Neighborhood Equity
Funds (O 644-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Westown Community Development Corp. — — Location Identification Banners
(O 1086-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

.
.
.
.

1313
1416
1401
1306

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1412

Ward 20
Erwin Avenue sewer — rehabilitate (O 852-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Happy Times Day Care and Nursery School, Inc. - — economic development assistance
— 12625 Lena Ave. (O 931-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Happy Times Day Care and Nursery School, Inc. — Enterprise Zone Agreement —
construction at 12625 Lena Avenue (O 930-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Holiday Wreaths 102 — Westown Community Development Corporation (O 1171-01) . . . . . . . . .
Industrial parkway S.W. — intention to vacate (R 941-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Longmead Ave., 12713 — Land Reutilization Program — Bellaire-Puritas Development
Corporation (O 306-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
McGowan Park, Crossburn Park, Jefferson Park & Maplewood Ball Diamond Complex
— improvement (O 504-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Milligan Ave., 12923 — Land Reutilization Program — Bellaire-Puritas Development
Corporation (O 509-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ray Fogg Building Methods, Inc — permit — Oatey Company’s distribution complex center
(O 929-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Greater Cleveland Beepball League — grant — Ward 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,19 &
20 Neighborhood Equity Funds (O 1087-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . 1406
. . . . . . . . . . . 1411
. . . . . . . . . . . 1410
. . . . . . . . . . . 1416
. . . . . . . . . . . 1349
. . . . . . . . . . . 1385
. . . . . . . . . . . 1336
. . . . . . . . . . . 1389
. . . . . . . . . . . 1341
. . . . . . . . . . . 1412

Ward 21
Fairway Drive area sewer — rehabilitate (O 821-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kamm’s Corner Development Corporation — amend Ord. No. 1737-2000 — Ward 21 Neighborhood
Equity Funds (O 1220-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Melbourne Avenue sewer - rehabilitate (O 820-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Mark’s Foot Race — permit (O 1090-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Westpark & Lydian Roads — rehabilitating sewers — amend Sec. 3 of Ord. No. 1000-2000
(O 707-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Westpark and Lydian Roads — sewers — — amend Ord. No. 1000-2000 (O 1222-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . 1402
. . . . . . . 1314
. . . . . . . 1402
. . . . . . . 1413
. . . . . . . 1395
. . . . . . . 1315

Water Division
Dictaphone Corporation — equipment (O 842-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1405
Garrett A. Morgan Water Treatment Plant — improvement — amend Ord. No. 817-2000
(O 1262-01). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1330
Zoning Code
Zoning, Housing and Building Codes — penalties for violations — amend Sects. 327.99,
367.99 & 3103.99 (O 542-01) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1336

1456

